=== 125-2022 proposal document, page 1 of 3 (OCR) ===
CITY-COUNTY SPECIAL RESOLUTION NO. 10, 2022
Proposal No. 125, 2022

A SPECIAL RESOLUTION condemning the Russian invasion of Ukraine and urging steadfast support for
the Ukrainian people.

WHEREAS, in keeping with national and international law, this Council fully affirms the right of all
countries to decide their own future, foreign policy, and security arrangements free from outside interference
or coercion, and,

WHEREAS, on February 24, 2022, Russian Federation forces launched an unprovoked full-scale
invasion on the sovereign and peaceful nation of Ukraine; and,

WHEREAS, Reuters news service has reported that, since the launch of the invasion, Russian
Federation forces have targeted civilians and have committed war crimes and crimes against humanity;
and,

WHEREAS, the international Committee of the Red Cross report “devastating scenes of human
suffering” across Ukraine in recent days, including hundreds of thousands of civilians trapped by Russian
shelling in cities like Mariupol, now in its sixth day with no running water, no power, and no sanitation; and,

WHEREAS, the World Health Organization has said health facilities inside Ukraine are being attacked,
supporting the accounts of Ukrainian officials who say the Russian Federation is striking civilian targets
around the country, including hospitals, nurseries, and schools; and,

WHEREAS, on March 6, 2022, the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees noted that more
than 1.5 million people have crossed into neighboring countries in just 10 days and described the situation
as “the fastest-growing refugee crisis since the Second World War”; and,

WHEREAS, the same agency has stated that the official total of 1,123 verified ci
caused shelling from heavy artillery and multi-launch rocket systems, missiles, and air strikes is
be a considerable underestimate of the true numbers”; now, therefore:

BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA:

SECTION 1. This Council unequivocally supports the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine and
stands steadfastly, staunchly, and proudly, behind the Ukrainian people in their fight against
authoritarianism and the violent aggression of the Russian Federation.

SECTION 2. The Council joins the United States government and the leaders and civilians of democratic
societies around the globe in demanding that the Russian Federation immediately cease its unlawful use
of force against Ukraine and refrain from any further threat or use of force against any other nation.

SECTION 3. The Council likewise urges an immediate ceasefire and suspension of this unprovoked attack
on the nation of Ukraine and calls on global leaders to work with all due haste toward a peaceful resolution
of Russian Federation aggression.

SECTION 4. The Council calls on all parties to facilitate safe and unfettered passage to destinations outside
of Ukraine for all citizens, rapid and unhindered access to those in need of assistance inside the country,
and protections for civilians and medical and humanitarian workers.

SECTION 5. The Council further calls on all parties to fully comply with their obligations under international
humanitarian law to spare the civilian population and infrastructure.

SECTION 6. The Council offers its gratitude to the thousands of Indianapolis residents who have expressed
their support for the people of Ukraine through donations, demonstrations, and prayers.

SECTION 7. The Mayor is invited to join in this resolution by affixing his signature hereto.

SECTION 8. This resolution shall be in full force and effect upon adoption and compliance with IC 36-3-4-
14.

SPECIAL RESOLUTION RECORD 2022

=== 125-2022 proposal document, page 2 of 3 (OCR) ===
S.R. No. 10, 2022
Page 2

The foregoing was passed by the City-County Council this 7" day of March, 2022, at 7:42 p.m.

ATTEST:

ee op bd og Vop Osili
Sot hag Hos PresidgntCity-County Council

SaRita Hughes
Clerk, City-County Council

Presented by me to the Mayor this 8" day of March, 2022.
SaRita Hughes —
Clerk, City-County Council

osepeh Lafh calf
ih H. Hogsett, Mayor

yr
Approved and signed by me this | 4 day of March, 2022.

J

STATE OF INDIANA, MARION COUNTY)
) SS:
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS )

|, SaRita Hughes, Clerk of the City-County Council, Indianapolis, Marion County, Indiana, do hereby certify

the above and foregoing is a full, true, and complete copy of Proposal No. 125, 2022, a Proposal for a

SPECIAL RESOLUTION passed by the City-County Council on the 7 day of March, 2022, by a unanimous

voice vote, and was retitled Special Resolution No. 3, 2022, which was signed by the Mayor on the
} Ate day of March, 2022, and now remains on file and on record in my office.

pple
WITNESS my hand and the official seal of the City of Indianapolis, Indiana, this |W Six of March, 2022.

SSP bs lhighas

SaRita Hughes
Clerk, City-County Council

(SEAL)

SPECIAL RESOLUTION RECORD 2022

=== 125-2022 proposal document, page 3 of 3 (OCR) ===
Proposal: PROP22- 125
Sponsor: Osili
Action: Adopt
Committee: Whole

Yea: 24

Yea - 24
Adamson
Annee
Bain
Barth
Boots
Brown

Nay - 0

Abstain - 0

Excused - 1

Carlino

Excused - 0

Indianapolis City - County Council

2020-2023
2020-2023

3/7/2022 7:42 PM

Ordinance: S.R. 10

-~ VOTED BY UNANIMOUS CONSENT -

Nay: 0

Dilk
Evans-E
Evans-J
Graves
Gray
Hart

Abstain: 0

Not Voting: 0

Jackson
Jones
Larrison
Lewis
Mascari
McCormick

RCS# 505

(PASSED)

Excused: 1

Mowery
Oliver
Osili
Potts
Ray
Robinson
