=== 130-2023 proposal document, page 1 of 14 (OCR) ===
CITY-COUNTY GENERAL ORDINANCE NO. 33, 2023
Proposal No. 130, 2023

PROPOSAL FOR A GENERAL ORDINANCE to amend the Revised Code of the Consolidated City and
County, Indianapolis/Marion County, Indiana (Revised Code), concerning drainage and stormwater
management.

WHEREAS, the City of Indianapolis (City) is the permittee of a Municipal Separate Storm Sewer System
(MS4) National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) Individual Permit, Permit Number
INS040001, issued by the indiana Department of Environmental Management (IDEM) with oversight by the
United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA); and

WHEREAS, the Indiana Department of Environmental Management (IDEM) issued the NPDES
construction stormwater general permit (CSGP INRA00000) to regulate discharges of stormwater from
construction activities into surface waters of the State of Indiana on December 9, 2021, effective December 18,
2021; and

WHEREAS, the City shall operate according to and seek additional legal authority as needed to enable
compliance with the IDEM CSGP; and

WHEREAS, therefore, certain revisions to the Revised Code are required to update the City’s stormwater
management ordinances; now, therefore:

BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA:

SECTION 1. Section 561-103 of the "Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County," regarding “Land
alterations to be accomplished in accordance with drainage requirements,” hereby is amended by the
deletion of the language that is stricken-through, and by the addition of the language that is underscored,
to read as follows:

Sec. 561-103. - Land alterations to be accomplished in accordance with drainage requirements.

Any land alteration must be accomplished in conformity with regulations adopted by the board of public
works pursuant to this chapter_and drainage permit requirements. Where any apparent conflict exists between
drainage requirements of this chapter and similar requirements of any state or federal agency which has
jurisdiction ef over the work invoived, the most stringent requirements shall be applicable. Except for the
foregoing, compliance with any other applicable provision of law, ordinance or regulation shall not excuse
noncompliance with this chapter.

SECTION 2. Section 561-221 of the "Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County,” regarding “When
drainage permits required; enforcement, exceptions,” hereby is amended by the deletion of the language
that is stricken-through, and by the addition of the language that is underscored, to read as follows:

(a) Except for activity specified in subsection (cb), it shall be unlawful for a person, partnership or
corporation to undertake or accomplish any land alteration without having in force a written drainage
permit obtained from the division of construction and business services. A violation of this section is
subject to the enforcement procedures and penalties provided in section 103-3 of this Code; provided,
however, the fine imposed for such violation shall not be less than one hundred dollars ($100.00),
and each day that an offense continues shall constitute a separate violation. The controller shall
cause any fines collected under this section to be deposited into an account for the use and benefit
of the department of business and neighborhood services.

(b) Soil disturbance on a levee, dam or within a levee or dam easement shail not be exempt from drainage
permitting.

{bc) The permit specified in subsection (a) shall not be required for:

(1) Excavation of cemetery graves;

(2) Refuse disposal sites where storm drainage is controlled by other regulations;

(3) Excavation for wells, excavation and backfills for poles, conduits, and wires of utility
companies which result in land disturbance alteration 1,000 square feet or less;

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2023

=== 130-2023 proposal document, page 2 of 14 (OCR) ===
(10)

(11)
(12)

(13)
(14)
(18)
(16)

(17)

G.O. No. 33, 2023
Page 2

Exploratory excavations or soil testing under the direction and control of professional
engineers, soil engineers, geologists, civil engineers, architects or land surveyors, that are
backfilled;

Ordinary cultivation of agricultural land including tilling and crop irrigation which does not result
in a change in stormwater discharge location, volume or velocity at the property border;

The planting and tilling of gardens, flower beds, shrubs, trees and other common uses and
landscaping of land which result in land disturbance alteration of 1,000 square feet or less;

Fill and grading of a former basement site after the demolition of a structure to conform the
land to adjacent terrain pursuant to a wrecking permit obtained for that purpose;

Fill of holes of less than 500 square feet caused by erosion, settling of earth or the removal of
such materials as dead trees, posts or concrete;

A fill less than one (1) foot in depth, and placed on natural terrain with a slope flatter than ten
(10) percent, not intended to support structures, that does not exceed fifty (50) cubic yards
per acre and does not obstruct or change drainage;

Maintenance of a drainage facility so that it perform as it was designed and constructed
which results in disturbance-ofland alteration of 1,000 square feet or less;

installation of a septic system pursuant to a permit obtained for that purpose;

Repair or reconstruction of an existing driveway, in kind, pursuant to a permit obtained for that
purpos'
Installation of building sewers pursuant to a permit obtained for that purpose;

An enlargement or exterior change of 200 square feet or less to an existing structure when no
part of the structure or the enlargement or exterior change to the structure is located in an
impacted drainage area;

Placement of an accessory structure that is 200 square feet in size or less to a one- or two-
family dwelling and is not located on a permanent foundation;

Exterior changes to a structure that do not change the ground floor area of the structure,
unless the roof of the building is part of a stormwater retention-detention system; or
Construction of a deck that extends over open ground at least eight (8) feet above grade or
that is constructed so that water freely and directly flows through the deck to the ground below
the deck.

(ed) The drainage permit must be obtained before any work is initiated, except for testing to determine
procedures or materials.

SECTION 3.

“Application

Section 561-223 of the "Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County,” regarding
issuance,” hereby is amended by the deletion of the language that is stricken-through, and by

the addition of the language that is underscored, to read as follows:

(a) Application for a drainage permit shall be made to the division of construction and business
services. The application shall be completed online or in writing on a form prescribed by the
division.

(b) A drainage permit shall be issued if:
(1)
(2)
(3)

(84)
(65)

(#6)

The person, partnership or corporation is eligible to apply for and obtain a drainage permit
under section 561-222:

The application required by this section and supporting information required by either section
561-224 or section 561-225 have been properly prepared and submitted;

The drainage plan, together with supplemental information required by either section 561-224
or section 561-225 reflect compliance with drainage requirements;

If required by the administrator as assigned by the deputy director of the division, a bond has
been posted pursuant to section 561-231;
If required by the administrator as assigned by the deputy director of the division, a covenant

has been executed pursuant to section 561-232;
If required by the administrator as assigned by the deputy director of the d
has been dedicated pursuant to section 561-233;

ion, an easement

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2023

=== 130-2023 proposal document, page 3 of 14 (OCR) ===
G.O. No. 33, 2023
Page 3

(87) If required by the administrator as assigned by the deputy director of the division, a drainage
facility operations and maintenance manual has been recorded pursuant to Section 561-234,
and

(98) The applicable fee, computed in accordance with Division 8 of Article II of this chapter, has
been paid.

SECTION 4. Section 561-224 of the “Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County," regarding
“Professional prepared and certified drainage plans,” hereby is amended by the deletion of the language
that is stricken-through, and by the addition of the language that is underscored, to read as follows:

(a) A drainage plan fulfilling the requirements of this section shall be submitted to the division of
construction and business services for approval before a drainage permit can be obtained to
accomplish a land alteration, unless the land alteration is such that a drainage permit can be
obtained in accordance with section 561-225. The drainage plan must be submitted in a manner
determined by the administrator as assigned by the deputy director of the division and shall indicate
in a precise way the work to be accomplished pursuant to the drainage permit. A copy of the
drainage plan will remain on file in the division. The following information must be submitted for
approval:

(1) Construction features. The drainage plan shall demonstrate and describe surface and
subsurface drainage and include the following:

a. Scale; arrow; contours and USGS benchmarks: The drainage pian shall be drawn to
scale, preferably one (1) inch per fifty (50) feet, and an arrow indicating north shall
appear on each page. Existing land contours shall be shown, with one-foot contours
for land with a slope flatter than ten (10) percent, two-foot contours for slopes equal
to or greater than ten (10) percent but flatter than twenty (20) percent, and five-foot
contours for slopes equal fo or greater than twenty (20) percent. A benchmark, which
is easily accessible and relocatable, shall be shown. The benchmark may be
assumed at the discretion of the administrator as assigned by the deputy director of
the division if the area contains less than three (3) acres, but otherwise shall be
determined by USGS datum.

b. Location and vicinity map: A map that indicates the location and vicinity of the
proposed tand alteration shall be included in the drainage plan.

c. Existing and proposed drainage facilities: The drainage pian shail show the locations
of all existing and proposed drainage facilities. Storm drains, manholes and other
structures shall be located in the plans by dimensions from traverse lines, property
markers or road centerlines. Coordinates of manholes and bearings of storm drains
shall be included and based either on the state's coordinate system or other
acceptable horizontal and vertical datum. If applicable, the drainage plan should
show the direction of flow, elevation of inverts, gradient and size of existing and
proposed storm drains. The design calculations shall include the capacity of existing
and proposed storm sewers.

d. Plan and profile: The plan shall be shown at the upper portion of the drawing. The
plan, generally, shall be drawn on a scale of one (1) inch equals fifty (50) feet. The
plan shall show appropriate right-of-way and easement limits. The profile shall be
shown under the plan and shall extend a sufficient distance downstream of the outlet
to allow any pertinent information concerning the outfall channel to be shown. The
storm drain and inlet profile shall generally be drawn on a scale of one (1) inch equals
fifty (50) feet horizontal, one (1) inch equals five (5) feet vertical. Where a storm drain
is located in an existing or proposed pavement or shoulder, the centerline grade of
the road shall be shown. Where a storm drain is located outside pavement or
shoulder, the existing ground over the storm drain with proposed grading shall be
shown. If the storm drain is to be constructed on fill, the profile of the undisturbed
earth, at drain location, shall be shown.

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2023

=== 130-2023 proposal document, page 4 of 14 (OCR) ===
(2)

(3)

(4)

(5)

G.O. No. 33, 2023
Page 4

Design calculations. Design caiculations are required as part of the drainage plan and
shall specifically include:

a. Estimation of stormwater runoff:

1. Drainage area map (scale one (1) inch equals 200 feet) indicating contours at
two-foot intervals and limits of one-hundred-year floodplain, where applicable,
as well as the watershed and sub-watershed boundaries with their respective
areas labeled;

Weighted runoff coefficient computations; and

Time of concentration computation indicating overland flow time and flow time in
the swale, gutter, pipe and/or channel.

en

b. Close conduit and open channel design computations:

Size of pipe or channel cross section;

Pipe or channel inverts and slope in percent;
Roughness coefficient;

Flowing velocities in feet per second; and
Design capacity in cubic feet per second.

ARWN>

c. Head loss computations in manholes and junction chambers;.
d. Inlet casting capacity computations.
e. Hydraulic gradient computations, wherever applicable.

f. Post-construction water quality calculations such as, but not limited to, design
parameters.

Such design calculations shall conform to the standards of Article Ill, Division 5 of this
chapter and all regulations promulgated thereunder.

Construction water quality information. Adequate and appropriate construction
stormwater quality controls including, but not limited to, erosion and sediment controls,
dewatering filter, pollution prevention, concrete_and cementitious washout containment,
inlet protection, and other information as required by 32#4AC+6-5(Rule-5}, the National
Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES Construction Stormwater General
4 } iminat |} Permit administered by the
State of Indiana, and regulations adopted by the board of public works pursuant fo this
chapter.

Existing features. Verification that existing water quality and quantity drainage facilities
to remain anywhere on the parcel have been inspected and maintained to function as
originally designed and permitted.

Contaminated soils. Inclusion of information regarding the presence, or lack thereof, of

(88)

contaminated soils to_be disturbed during construction and the impact_from_or to
stormwater shail be included. Said information shall include the following:

a. The applicant shail consider implications of stormwater on existing contaminated
soils and address this concern in the design and Technical information Report,

b. The design shall provide measures to mitigate movement of contaminants off site
and shall include the typical fate and transport of the contaminants present.

Additional information. The administrator as assigned by the deputy director of the
division shall be empowered to require such additional information to be included in a
drainage plan that is necessary to evaluate and determine the adequacy of the proposed

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2023

=== 130-2023 proposal document, page 5 of 14 (OCR) ===
G.O. No. 33, 2023
Page 5

(67) Certification required. All drainage plans submitted under this section must be certified
by a registered professional engineer, land surveyor or architect engaged in storm
drainage design under whose supervision the plans were prepared. The certificate shall
be in a form prescribed by the division.

(b) The approval of a drainage plan by the division under this section shall be valid for a period of one
(1) year from the date such approval was granted, or until the drainage permit for which the plan
was submitted is issued, whichever occurs first. However, prior to the issuance of the permit, if
there are any material changes to an approved drainage plan or circumstances that cause the
drainage plan to be inaccurate or incomplete, then a new or corrected drainage plan shall be
submitted to and approved by the division as a precondition for obtaining a drainage permit. All
conditions of the approval of a drainage plan shall be met prior to issuance of a permit. The
administrator as assigned by the deputy director of the division of construction and business
services may, for good cause shown in writing, extend the validity of the drainage plan approval for
an additional period that is reasonable under the circumstances.

SECTION 5. Section 561-225 of the "Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County,” regarding “When
professional prepared and certified drainage plan not required,” hereby is amended by the deletion of the
language that is stricken-through, and by the addition of the language that is underscored, to read as
follows:

(a) A drainage plan that does not contain as much information as drainage plans prepared to fulfill the
requirements of section 561-224 and that is not prepared or certified by a registered professional
engineer, land surveyor or architect engaged in storm drainage design may be submitted when:

(1) No part of the parcel or property for which the drainage permit is required is in an impacted
drainage area;

(2) The primary basis on which a drainage permit is required is the construction, enlargement
or location, on a permanent foundation, of a one-family dwelling, two-family dwelling or
accessory structure appurtenant to either a one- or two-family dwelling;

(3) | The project resuits in less than one-half (14) of an acre of land disturbance; and

(4) | The project does not alter drainage patterns at the property boundaries.

(b) The drainage plan must be submitted in a manner determined by the administrator as assigned by
the deputy director of the division and shall indicate the nature and location of all work to be
accomplished pursuant to a drainage permit. The drainage plan must be neat, accurate and readable.
A copy of the drainage pian will remain on file in the division of construction and business services.
The following information must be submitted for approval under this section:

The legal description and the street address for the property;

The dimensions and borders of the parcel;

The name and address of the owner;

An arrow indicating north;

Location of all existing and proposed improvements, structures and paved areas on the site;

Existing and proposed grading showing positive drainage by contouring or sufficient spot

elevations;

(7) Location of all existing or proposed swales, ditches, culverts, drainage channels, surface
and subsurface drainage devices and the direction of the flow; and

(8) Adequate and appropriate stormwater quality controls including, but not limited to, erosion

and sediment controls, dewatering filter, concrete_and cementitious washout containment,

pollution prevention, inlet protection and other information as required by regulations

adopted by the board of public works pursuant to this chapter.

mm
BIALYNS

The drainage pian shall include information necessary fo demonstrate conformity with all drainage
requirements of Article Ill of this chapter. The plot map shall illustrate the surface drainage pattern of
the site away from structures and the final distribution of surface water off-site, either preventing or
planning for surface ponding.

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2023

=== 130-2023 proposal document, page 6 of 14 (OCR) ===
G.O. No. 33, 2023
Page 6

(c) The approval of a drainage plan by the division under this section shall be valid for a period of one (1)
year from the date such approval was granted, or until the drainage permit for which the plan was
submitted is issued, whichever occurs first. However, prior to the issuance of the permit, if there are
any material changes to an approved drainage plan or circumstances that cause the drainage plan to
be inaccurate or incomplete, then a new or corrected drainage plan shall be submitted to and approved
by the division as a precondition for obtaining a drainage permit. All conditions of the approval of a
drainage plan shail be met prior to issuance of a permit. The administrator as assigned by the
deputy director of the division of construction and business services may, for good cause shown in
writing, extend the validity of the drainage plan approval for an additional period that is reasonable
under the circumstances.

(d) Notwithstanding other provisions of this section, submission of a drainage plan shall not be required
as a precondition for obtaining a drainage permit in the instance of a one- or two-family dwelling
constructed in a subdivision for which a plat has been approved in accordance with Chapter 741,
Article | of this Code, and for which a drainage plan meeting the requirements of section 561-224 has
been approved and a permit issued under this chapter, so long as the permit applicant certifies that
the land alteration shall be accomplished in compliance with the specifications and information found
on the approved plat and on such drainage plan. Any deviations from the drainage provisions as
approved in the plat and drainage plan for the subject plot must be submitted to the division for approval
by the administrator of the division, and the administrator may require the submission of plans or other
information relative to the deviation that may be required as a precondition to approval.

(e) Notwithstanding other provisions of this section, submission of a drainage plan shall not be required
as a precondition for obtaining a drainage permit in the instance of residential alterations which do not
exceed 400 square feet and does not connect to the city storm sewer system. The administrator as
assigned by the deputy director of the division of construction and business services may require the
submission of plans or other information relative to the development as a precondition for issuance of
a permit.

SECTION 6. Section 561-263 of the "Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County," regarding “Stop-
work order,” hereby is amended by the deletion of the language that is stricken-through, and by the addition
of the language that is underscored, to read as follows:

(a) Whenever the administrator as assigned by the deputy director of the division of construction and
business services or his or her authorized representative discovers the existence of any of the
circumstances listed below, he or she is empowered to issue an order requiring the suspension of all
construction activities. The stop-work order shall be in writing and shall state to what construction
activities it is applicable and the reason for its issuance. One (1) copy of the stop-work order shall be
posted on the property in a conspicuous place and one (1) copy shall be delivered to the permit
applicant, and if conveniently possible to the person performing the construction activities and to the
owner of the property or his or her agent. The stop-work order shall state the conditions under which
construction activities may be resumed. A stop-work order shall be issued if:

(1) Land alteration is proceeding in an unsafe manner;

(2) Land alteration is occurring in violation of a drainage requirement and in such manner that
if land alteration is allowed to proceed, there is a probability that it will be substantially difficult
to correct the violation;

(3) Land alteration has been accomplished in violation of a drainage requirement and a period
of time that is one-half (4) the time period in which land alteration could be completed, but
no longer than fifteen (15) calendar days has elapsed since written notice of the violation or
noncompliance was either posted on the property in a conspicuous place or given to the
person doing the land alteration, without the violation or noncompliance being corrected; or

(4) Land alteration for which a drainage permit is required is proceeding without a drainage
permit being in force. in such an instance, the stop-work order shail indicate that the effect
of the order terminates when the required drainage permit is obtained;

(5) Construction activity is proceeding without the appropriate instal n and maintenance of
pollution prevention controls, including but not limited to, erosion and sediment controls,
concrete and cementitious washout containment and trash containment; or

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2023

=== 130-2023 proposal document, page 7 of 14 (OCR) ===
G.O. No. 33, 2023
Page 7

(6) Construction activity that results in prohibited discharges to a municipal separate storm
sewer, combined sewer or surface water body defined as an environmental public nuisance
by section 575-2 of this Code.

(b) This sanction shall in no way limit the operation of penalties provided elsewhere in this chapter.

SECTION 7. Section 561-333 of the "Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County,” regarding
“Drainage to adequate receiving place,” hereby is amended by the deletion of the language that is stricken-
through, and by the addition of the language that is underscored, to read as follows:

A drainage facility shall be constructed provided which allows drainage of water runoff from each
contributing watershed area and from each portion of the parcel to a place or places adequate to receive it.

SECTION 8. Section 561-383 of the "Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County,” regarding “Duration
of exposure; stabilization,” hereby is amended by the deletion of the language that is stricken-through, and by
the addition of the language that is underscored, to read as follows:

The duration of time which an area remains exposed shall be kept to a practical minimum. The area
shall be stab zed as quickly as practical. Areas with exposed soil shall be temporarily_or permanently
iization shall be initiated by the end of the seventh

SECTION 9. Section 561-387 of the "Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County,” regarding “State
of Indiana General Construction Site Run-off National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System permit,”
hereby is amended by the deletion of the language that is stricken-through, and by the addition of the
language that is underscored, to read as follows:

Projects subject to the provisions of the National Pollution Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) Rule
5,327 1AC45-5,-F Construction Stormwater General Permit general_permit for—discharges—from
ities shall comply with all applicable permit requirements.

SECTION 10. Section 645-703 of the "Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County,” regarding
“Work in public rights-of-way,” hereby is amended by the deletion of the language that is stricken-through,
and by the addition of the language that is underscored, to read as follows:

(a) All utilities desiring to work in, on, under or over the public right-of-way shall obtain all
applicable permits as required in this article. In performing such work, the utilities shall be bound by the
standards, regulations, procedures and guidelines set forth in this article except that:

(1) A public utility shall not be required to file a performance bond with an application for a
permit if the utility has on file with the permit section of the department of business and
neighborhood services a statement signed by an officer of the utility wherein the utility
agrees to indemnify the city against, and hold the city harmless from, any claim for
damages arising out of the work of the utility (or persons, corporations or firms authorized
by the utility) in a public right-of-way pursuant to any permit issued by the permit section of
the department of business and neighborhood services. public-works.

(2) A public utility shall not be required to file a written statement of insurance with an
application for a permit if the utility has on file with the permit section of the department of
business and neighborhood services the indemnification agreement specified in
subsection (1) above.

(3) A public utility shall not be required to obtain in advance any permit or permits to excavate
within the public right-of-way or block or alter traffic patterns on any thoroughfare or street
where such action:

a. Is required in connection with making emergency repairs to underground, overhead
or surface facilities;

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2023

=== 130-2023 proposal document, page 8 of 14 (OCR) ===
G.O. No. 33, 2023
Page 8

b. Is necessary because service to one (1) or more customers has been interrupted or
is in danger of being interrupted and the interruption may result in personal injury or
property damage to the customer, utility or some third party; or

c. Is required to comply immediately with an order of a court or an agency having
jurisdiction over the utility.

Whenever a utility performs work in accordance with this exception, it shall notify the
department of public works maintenance section by telephone during normal duty hours
or, if after normal duty hours or on holidays or weekends, the permit section of the
department of business and neighborhood services where such notification will be
recorded by a telephone recording device.

(4) A public utility shall not be required to obtain a right-of-way excavation permit to perform
work, including excavating, in a public right-of-way unless the utility will make an excavation
in or under the paved surface within the right-of-way.

(5) A public utility shall not be required to obtain parking meter block out and removal permits,
provided the utility reports all blockages to the parking meter section of the department of
public works and pays, on a monthly basis, the blockage charges due.

(b) All work including, but not limited to, the restoration of pavement, sidewalks or grass areas,
shall be done by the utility at the expense of the utility, unless the city shall elect to do the work and
charge the cost thereof to the utility. Such work shail be subject to the supervision and approval of the
department of public works.

(c) Adequate and appropriate water quality measures including, but not limited to, erosion and
sediment control, inlet protection, concrete and cementitious washout containment and dewatering
filters, shall be implemented and maintained throughout the duration of the project to protect surface
waters and the storm sewer system from pollutants.

(d) All disturbed areas shall be restored with vegetation or pavement, as applicable, to stabilize
the site. Vegetation restorations shall include adequate seed and erosion protection, such as an
erosion control blanket.

{e) Notice of work in public rights-of-way.

(1) For purposes of this subsection, the terms “utility pole" and “wireless support structure"
have the meaning set forth in House Enrolled Act 1318 (2015).

(2) For purposes of this subsection, the term “residential area" shall mean any area zoned
dwelling (zoning districts D-1, D-2, etc.) as set forth in the Indianapolis-Marion County
zoning ordinance, as the same may hereafter be amended, replaced or recodified.

(3) Except in an emergency where a failure to act immediately could lead to serious harm to
public health or safety, at least twenty (20) days before placing a new utility pole or
wireless support structure in a public right-of-way in a residential area, a utility or its
contractor shall give notice to the department of public works. The notice shall be made
electronically through email to the department of public works or access to the website
of the department of public works. The notice shall contain a brief description of the work
to be done, the expected timing for the work, and a contact telephone number for those
who have questions about the work. At least ten (10) days before the work begins, the
department of public works shall post the notice on its public website.

(4) The notice requirement contained in subsection (3) does not apply to the replacement,
repair or improvement of an existing utility pole or wireless support structure.

SECTION 11. Section 676-303 of the “Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County,” regarding
“Credits,” hereby is amended by the deletion of the language that is stricken-through, and by the addition
of the language that is underscored, to read as follows:

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2023

=== 130-2023 proposal document, page 9 of 14 (OCR) ===
G.O. No. 33, 2023
Page 9

(a) Credit availability.
(1) Residential. A credit to the stormwater user fee imposed on residential parcels may be
available, upon application to the department, for parcels that meets the following criteria:

(2)

a.

A single residential credit up to, but not more than, twenty-five (25) percent is available to
applicants who own and reside at a parcel and show that an approved stormwater
management facility has been constructed and effectively implemented on the parcel.
Approved stormwater management facilities eligible for the credit include:

1. Rain gardens;

2. On-site stormwater storage; and

3. Vegetated filter strips.

Application process: Details of the credit, including parameters and application
procedures shall be set forth in the stormwater credit manual.

Nonresidential. A credit to the stormwater user fee imposed on nonresidential property may
be available, upon application to the department, for parcels that meet one (1) or more of the
following criteria:

a.

Location in relation to major waterway. Credit shall be granted for applicant owned

stormwater facilities based on the jocation of the property to a major waterway of the

United States, if the property directly discharges its stormwater to that waterway in

compliance with all requirements of the code, the stermwater-specificatienmanual

Stormwater Design and Construction Specifications Manual, and state and federa

regulations. White River, Fall Creek and Big Eagle Creek below Eagle Creek Reservoir

shall be considered major waterways for the purposes of this section. A one (1) percen
credit shall be granted from the total monthly stormwater user fee for each two (2) percent
of the impervious area from the property that directly discharges to the major waterway.

Application process: Details of the credit, including parameters and application

procedures shall be set forth in the Stormwater credit manual.

Construction in compliance with or exceeding the stermwater_specification—manual

Stormwater Design and Construction Specifications Manual and the code. Credit shall be

granted from the total monthly stormwater user fee for applicant owned stormwater

facilities, such as retention/detention and water quality facilities, constructed either prior
to the effective date or after the effective date of the stermwaterspecification_manual

Stormwater Design and Construction Specifications Manual, if those facilities either meet

or exceed:

1. The requirements of the stormwater-specificatien_ manual Stormwater Design and
Construction Specifications Manual: and

2. The requirements of the code in effect at the time of construction.
Two-tiered credit availability for construction in compliance with or exceeding stermwater
specification manual Stormwater Design and Construction Specifications Manual and the
code. Property owners of applicant owned stormwater facilities, such as
retention/detention and water quality facilities, eligible for credit under subsection (b) may,
at their option, apply for either a Tier One or a Tier Two credit as set forth below. Details
of the tier system and other matters relating to applying for and receiving credits shall be
included in the stormwater credit manual.

1. Tier One. Tier One credit is intended for construction of stormwater management

facilities that meet the requirements of the stormwater—specification—manual
Stormwater Design and Construction Specifications Manual and code. A ten (10)
percent credit may be granted from the total monthly stormwater user fee for a parcel
having approved stormwater facilities that meet the requirements of the stormwater
specification manual Stormwater Design and Construction Specifications Manual and
code.
Application process: Detailed technical information shall be supplied by the owner
and the owner's engineer. Such information shall include as-built data, routing the
storm event for the two (2), ten (10), twenty-five (25), and one hundred (100) year-
storm events, comparison of pre-development and post-development conditions, total
storage volume and emergency spillway configuration. To receive a credit,
stormwater facilities must provide control to a pre-development level for all the above
storm events. Water quality volume and post construction treatment data shall be
supplied. Tier One credits shall be granted as provided in the stormwater credit
manual.

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2023

=== 130-2023 proposal document, page 10 of 14 (OCR) ===
G.O. No. 33, 2023
Page 10

2. Tier Two. Tier Two credit is intended for construction of stormwater management
facilities that are designed and constructed to exceed the requirements of the
stormwater-specification manual Stormwater Design and Construction Specifications
Manual and code. A thirty (30) percent credit may be granted from the total monthly
stormwater user fee for a parcel having approved stormwater facilities that exceed

the requirements of the stormwater-specificationmanual Stormwater Design and

Construction Specifications Manual and code.

ied by the owner
and the owner's engineer. Such information shall include as-built data, routing the
storm event for the two (2), ten (10), twenty-five (25), and one hundred (100) year-
storm events, comparison of pre-development and post-development conditions, total
storage volume and emergency spillway configuration. To receive a Tier Two credit,
approved stormwater facilities must provide both control to a pre-development level
for all the above storm events and provide post construction stormwater quality
treatment that exceeds the requirements detailed in the stermwater-specification
manual Stormwater Design and Construction Specifications Manual by ten (10)
percent. A parcel may also qualify for stormwater credits for drainage basins that are
designed utilizing the Modified Rational Method, which is detailed in the sterrawater
specification-manual Stormwater Design and Construction Specifications Manual.
Water quality volume and post construction treatment data shall be supplied. Tier
Two credits shall be awarded as provided in the stormwater credit manual.

d. Additional water quality and/or quantity control. An additional water quality and/or quantity

control credit is intended to utilize the construction of approved Green Infrastructure
(infiltrative) practices to reduce overall stormwater discharge volume from the property.
An additional credit up to twenty (20) percent may be granted for an approved plan and
successful construction and implementation of Green Infrastructure (infiltrative) practices
that reduce discharge volume.
Application process: Applicant must first qualify for either the Tier One or Tier Two credit
to receive the additional water quality and/or quantity control credit. Final approved level
of credit shall be based on an approvable plan that demonstrates the use of acceptable
infiltrative practices approved by the department or the stermwaterspecificatioa_manual
Stormwater Design and Construction Specifications Manual for the stormwater.
Submission shall include design plans and details and hydrologic and hydraulic
calculations necessary for review. Credit shall be granted as provided in the stormwater
credit manual.

e. Education. Education credit is intended to aid the department in the outreach and
education compliance and reporting requirements of the National Pollutant Discharge
Elimination System discharge permit. A credit up to five (5) percent credit may be granted
from the total monthly stormwater user fee for a property owner implementing an approved
stormwater quality awareness and education lesson plan for elementary through high
school classes. This credit is limited to state recognized schools using state licensed
instructors.

Application process: Detailed lesson plan and implementation schedule shall be
submitted to the department to determine eligibility for the education credit. The lesson
plan shall be taught to elementary and middle school students by an instructor licensed
by the State of Indiana. The application for credit may be submitted by an individual school
or a school district or corporation. The credit shall be applied only to the BBUs of the
educational building on the parcel where the instruction of the approved credit material
takes place. Owner shall be required to submit reports regarding implementation of the
plan on an annual basis to maintain the credit. Education credits shall be granted as
provided in the stormwater credit manua

(3) All parcel owners may apply for and be eligible for credit under this section.

(4) The descriptions in this section of circumstances in which credit may be granted are not
intended to be all inclusive. The stormwater credit manual may allow credit for stormwater
facilities and circumstances not described in this section.

(5) The board, upon recommendation from the department, shall approve a stormwater credit
manual. The department shall follow the provisions of the stormwater credit manual in
reviewing and acting upon applications for credit. Copies of the stormwater credit manual shal
be available from the department.

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2023

=== 130-2023 proposal document, page 11 of 14 (OCR) ===
(c)

(d)

(6)

G.O. No. 33, 2023
Page 11

Each credit granted shail be conditioned on the continuing compliance with the design,
operation maintenance and reporting requirements of the code, the stermwater specification
fnanual Stormwater Design and Construction Specifications Manual and the requirements set
forth in the most current indianapolis Stormwater Credit Manual.

Credit procedures.

(1)
(2)
(3)

(4)

(5)

Application for credit or an appeal of a credit determination shall not constitute a valid reason

for non-payment of the stormwater user fee for which a credit is being requested.

Application for credit shall be made on forms provided by the department and shall be

accompanied by the applicable application submittal fee.

The board, upon recommendation of the department, may set reasonable credit application

submittal and review fees. Such fees shall be reasonably related to the cost of reviewing credit

applications.

a. Application and/or renewal submittal fees shall not exceed four hundred fifty dollars
($456.00) per application and shall include up to three (3) hours of review by the
department. If an application requires more than three (3) hours of review by the
department, the applicant shall reimburse the department for such additional review time
at a rate not to exceed one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) per hour.

b. Application submittal fees and all review fees for the education credit shall not exceed a
total of three hundred dollars ($300.00).

The department shall be responsible for reviewing credit applications and shall provide a

written determination of the credit application within sixty (60) days of receipt of a complete

credit application. The written determination shall set forth the effective date of the credit and
any conditions applicable to receipt of an approved credit.

Appeals of credit determinations shall follow the procedures set forth in section 676-304 of

this article.

Maximum credit, effective date, expiration and termination.

(1)
(2)

(3)

(4)

(5)

The maximum total credit for any parcel shall be fifty (60) percent of the stormwater user fees

assessed against the parcel.

If granted by the department, a credit shall have an effective date as follow:

a. For credit applications approved on or between January 1 and/or on June 30 the effective
date shall be July 1 of the same year, and

b. For credit applications approved on or between July 1 and/or on December 31 the
effective date shall be January 1 of the following year.

Credits approved by the department on or after the date of Council approval of the articles

herein, shall expire, unless earlier terminated as provided in subsection (4), three (3) years

from the effective date.

Upon written notice to the property owner or other person designated by the property owner

to receive such notice, the department may terminate a credit for good cause, including, but

not limited to, the reasons set forth below. The department's termination of a credit may be

appealed by following the review procedures set forth in section 676-304 of this article.

At the written request of the owner;

Property or land alteration that affects drainage or impervious area;

Change of ownership

Failure to maintain facilities; and

Failure to report as required.

If a credit expires or is terminated, the property owner may submit a new or renewal credit

application subject to all conditions herein.

aoop

oO

Expiration of existing credits.

(1)

Credits approved by the department prior to the date of council approval of the articles herein
shall expire on December 31, 2016.

SECTION 12. Section 741-311 of the “Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County,” regarding

“Stormwater,”

hereby is amended by the deletion of the language that is stricken-through, and by the

addition of the language that is underscored, to read as follows:

Stormwater drainage facilities are to be designed and constructed to meet the stormwater quality and

quantity standards established in the Stormwater Design and Construction Specifications Manual

Stormwater-—Specificatiens-Manual. The drainage fa

ies in the excluded cities of Lawrence,

Speedway, and Southport are to be designed and constructed to meet the standards established for
each of these jurisdictions.

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2023

=== 130-2023 proposal document, page 12 of 14 (OCR) ===
G.O. No. 33, 2023
Page 12

B. Major subdivisions in the Metro Context Area shall meet the stormwater quality and quantity standards
using low-impact development techniques. However, residential subdivisions shall not use sand filters
as a BMP.

C. For projects where LID techniques are technically infeasible to meet stormwater quantity standards,
the applicant shall provide a justification demonstrating why the use of LID techniques is not possible.
Documentation of technical infeasibility shall include engineering calculations, geologic reports,
hydrologic analyses, and site maps. In such case, LID stormwater management techniques shall still
be used to meet water quality standards.

D. All BMPs must be located within an easement. The easement must include access to the BMP for
maintenance. The purpose of each easement shail be specified in the maintenance agreement. A
copy of the easement should be included in the BMP operations and maintenance manual required
by the Stormwater Design and Construction Specifications Manual Sterrawater- Specifications Manual.

E. Maintenance improvements. Facilities providing for the proper on-going maintenance of any
stormwater drainage facility shall be provided. Signs indicating no-mow areas, fence demarcating
boundaries of natural areas, species and informational markers, and grate markings are examples of
such improvements.

F. The responsibility of maintenance of stormwater facilities shall be as set forth by Section 561-21.
"Maintenance of drainage facilities" of the Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County.
Maintenance access shall be provided to stormwater facility as set forth to assure continuous
operational capacity of the stormwater facility. Inspections and maintenance is the responsibility of the
owner. Specific guidelines for maintenance can be found in the Stormwater Design and Construction

Specifications Manual Storrawater Specifications Manual Chapter 100 Policy and Procedures and
Chapter 700 Stormwater Quality.

G. Erosion control provisions shall be provided in accordance with Chapter 561 of the Revised Code of
the Consolidated City and County and Chapter 600 Erosion and Sediment Control of Stormwater

Design and Construction Specifications Manual the-Sterrawater-Specifications Manual,

SECTION 13. The expressed or implied repeal or amendment by this ordinance of any other ordinance or
part of any other ordinance does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred, or
proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this ordinance. Those rights, liabilities, and proceedings
are continued, and penalties shall be imposed and enforced under the repealed or amended ordinance as
if this ordinance had not been adopted.

SECTION 14. Should any provision (section, paragraph, sentence, clause, or any other portion) of this
ordinance be declared by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, the remaining
provision or provisions shall not be affected, if and only if such remaining provisions can, without the invalid
provision or provisions, be given the effect intended by the Council in adopting this ordinance. To this end
the provisions of this ordinance are severable.

SECTION 15. This ordinance shall be in effect from and after its passage by the Council and compliance
with Ind. Code § 36-3-4-14.

The foregoing was passed by the City-County Council this 5%" day of June, 2023, at 8:56 p.m.

ATTEST:

Vop Osili

Yulonda Winfield
Clerk, City-County Council

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2023

=== 130-2023 proposal document, page 13 of 14 (OCR) ===
G.O. No. 33, 2023
Page 13

Presented by me to the Mayor this 6" day of June, 2023

Yulonda Winfield
Clerk, City-County Council

Approved and signed by me this day of June, 2023.
seph H/ Alt ,

STATE OF INDIANA, MARION COUNTY)
) SS:
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS )

|, Yulonda Winfield, Clerk of the City-County Council, Indianapolis, Marion County, Indiana, do hereby certify
the above and foregoing is a full, true, and complete copy of Proposal No. 130, 2023, a Proposal for a
GENERAL ORDINANCE passed by the City-County Council on the 5 day of June, 2023, by a vote of 25
YEAS an NAYS, and was retitled General Ordinance No. 33, 2023, which was signed by the Mayor on
the 4 tit day of June, 2023, and. now remains on file and on record in my office.

WITNESS my hand and the official seal of the City of Indianapolis, indiana, this Go say of June, 2023.

Yulonda Winfield
Clerk, City-County Council
(SEAL)

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2023

=== 130-2023 proposal document, page 14 of 14 (OCR) ===
Indianapolis City - County Council RCS# 1226

2020-2023
2020-2023
6/5/2023 8:56 PM
Proposal: PROP23- 130 Ordinance: G.O. 33 (PASSED)
Sponsor: Adamson
Action: Adopt
Committee: Public Works
Yea: 25 Nay: 0 Abstain: 0 Not Voting: 0 Excused: 0
Yea - 25
Adamson Dilk Jackson Mowery
Annee Evans-E Jones Oliver
Bain Evans-J Larrison Osili
Barth Graves Lewis Poits
Boots Gray Mascari Ray
Brown Hart McCormick Robinson
Carlino
Nay - 0
Abstain - 0
Not Voting - 0

Excused - 0
