=== 135-2021 proposal document, page 1 of 4 (OCR) ===
CITY-COUNTY GENERAL ORDINANCE NO. 16, 2021
Proposal No. 135, 2021

A PROPOSAL FOR A GENERAL ORDINANCE to amend the Revised Code to expand nonsmoking areas
within the consolidated city fo include public parks owned or leased by the city or county.

BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA:

SECTION 1. Sections 616-102 of the "Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County,” is hereby amended
by inserting the underlined text and deleting the stricken-through text, to read as follows:

Sec. 616-102. - Definitions.

The following words and phrases, whenever used in this chapter, shall be construed as defined in this
section:

(a) “Ashtray” means any receptacle that is used for disposing of smoking materials, including, but not
limited to, ash and filters.

(b) “Business” means a sole proprietorship, partnership, joint venture, corporation, or other business
entity, either for-profit or not-for-profit, including, but not limited to, retail establishments where goods or
services are provided to the public, and other entities where accounting, counseling, legal, medical, dental,
engineering, architectural, or other professional services are delivered.

(c) "Employee" means a person who is employed by an employer in consideration for direct or indirect
monetary wages or profit, and a person who volunteers his or her services.

(d) "Employer" means a person, business, association, municipal corporation, trust, or nonprofit entity
that employs the services of one or more individual employees.

(e) "Enclosed area” means all space closed in by a roof, ceiling, or other overhead covering of any
material, and walls or other side coverings of any material on at least two sides with appropriate openings
for ingress and egress.

(f)} “Health care facility” means an office or institution providing care or treatment of diseases, whether
physical, mental, or emotional, or other medical, physiological, or psychological conditions, including but
not limited to, hospitals, rehabilitation hospitals weight control clinics, nursing homes, homes for the aging
or chronically il, laboratories, and offices of surgeons, chiropractors, physical therapists, physi ians,
dentists, and all specialists within these professions. The term "health care facility" shall include all waiting
rooms, hallways, private rooms, semi private rooms, and wards within health care facilities.

(g) "Place of employment" means an area under the contro! of a public or private employer that
employees normally frequent during the course of employment, including, but not limited to, work areas,
employee lounges, restrooms, conference rooms, meeting rooms, classrooms, employee cafeterias,
hallways, and vehicles.

(h) “Public park” means property that is owned, leased, or operated by the city or county, or any of their
offices, agencies or departments, that is used for any of the following: recreational facilities, athletic or
recreational fields, tennis courts, basketball courts, swimming pools, bike paths, walking or hiking trails,
wildlife and natural preserves, greenways, parks, dog parks, skate parks, amphitheaters, and any other
similar uses, and including related _buildings, facilities and improvements, together with parking lots
Toadways, sidewalks and walkways abutting or adjoining the same. The term “public park" does not include:
(}) city or county-owned golf courses and golf driving ranges; or (ii) property that is subject to a lease with
the city or county where the city or county is the lessor and the term of the lease is greater than five (5)

years.

4) (i) “Public place" means an enclosed area, whether owned publicly or privately, to which the public
is invited or in which the public is permitted.

& (i) “Retail fobacco store" means a retail store:

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2021

=== 135-2021 proposal document, page 2 of 4 (OCR) ===
G.O. No. 16, 2021

Page 2

(4) Utilized primarily for the sale of tobacco and tobacco-related products including, but not
limited to, cigarettes, cigars, tobacco, pipes, cigarette paper, and lighters:

(2) That is not licensed for the consumption of meals or alcoholic beverages on the premises

or operated in conjunction with another business that is licensed for the on-premises
consumption of meals or alcoholic beverages; and

(3) in which the sale of tobacco and tobacco-related products accounts for not less than eighty-
five (85) percent of the store's gross sales.

"Retail tobacco store" does not include a tobacco department of a larger commercial establishment such
as a grocery store, department store, discount store or hotel.

&} (k) “Shopping mail” means an enclosed public walkway or hall area that serves to connect retail or
professional establishments.

4} () “Smoking” means the carrying or hoiding of a lighted cigarette, cigar, pipe, or any other lighted
smoking equipment, the use of an electronic cigarette (also known as an e-cigarette), or the inhalation or
exhalation of smoke from any lighted smoking equipment. "Smoking" does not include the burning of
incense.

4) (m) "Sports arena” means sports pavilions, stadiums, athletic fields, gymnasiums, health spas,
boxing arenas, swimming pools, roller and ice rinks, bowling alleys, and other similar places where
members of the general public assemble to engage in physical exercise or recreation, participate in athletic
competition, or witness sports or other events.

SECTION 2. Sections 616-203 of the "Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County," is hereby amended
by inserting the underlined text, to read as follows:

Sec. 616-203. - Prohibition of smoking in Indianapolis and/or Marion County owned facilities and
public parks.

(a) Smoking shall be prohibited in all vehicles and enclosed areas in buildings owned, leased, or
operated by the city or the county, or any of their offices, agencies, or departments if those vehicles or
enclosed areas are used for any governmental function.

(b) Smoking shall be prohibited in all public parks.

SECTION 3. Should any provision (section, paragraph, sentence, clause or any other portion) of this
ordinance be declared by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, the remaining
provision or provisions shall not be affected ng provisions can, without the invalid
provision or provisions, be given the effect intended by the Council in adopting this ordinance. To this end
the provisions of this ordinance are severable.

SECTION 4. This ordinance shall be in full force and effect upon adoption and compliance with IC 36-3-4-
14.

The foregoing was passed by the City-County Council this 10" day of May, 2021, at 9:53 p.m.

ATTEST:

cc a A A Presidefif, City-County Council

SaRita Hughes
Clerk, City-County Council

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2021

=== 135-2021 proposal document, page 3 of 4 (OCR) ===
G.O. No. 16, 2021
Page 3

Presented by me to the Mayor this 11" day of May, 2027.

SaRita Hughes
Clerk, City-County Council

Approved and signed by me this __[ fs day of May, 2021. ‘al,
i

Joseph H. Hogsett, Mayor

STATE OF INDIANA, MARION COUNTY)
) Ss:
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS )

|, SaRita Hughes, Clerk of the City-County Council, Indianapolis, Marion County, Indiana, do hereby certify.
the above and foregoing is a full, true, and complete copy of Proposal No. 135, 2021, a Proposal for a
GENERAL ORDINANCE passed by the City-County Council on the 10! day of May, 2021, by a vote of 18

ng
[4 7 day of May, 2021, and now remains on file and on record in my office.

WITNESS my hand and the official seal of the City of Indianapolis, indiana, this / hy of May, 2021.

SaRita Hughes
Clerk, City-County Council

(SEAL)

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2021

=== 135-2021 proposal document, page 4 of 4 (OCR) ===
INDIANAPOLIS-MARION COUNTY CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL
(Via Webex)

Date: May 10, 2021

Time: 9:53 p.m.

PROPOSAL NO:_PROP21-135 ORDINANCE NO:___(G.O.) 16

SPONSOR: Barth, Potts, Brown, McCormick, Boots

ACTION: Adopt

Yea: 18 Nay: 6 Abstain: — ss Not Voting: _ 1. ~=Excused:
Adamson Y J. Evans Y Mascari Y
Annee N Graves Y McCormick Y
Bain N Gray N Mowe N
Barth Y Hart N Oliver
Boots Y Jackson Y Osili Y
Brown Y Jones Y Potts Y
Carlino Y Larrison Y Ray Y
Dilk N Lewis Y Robinsorr Y
E. Evans Y
