=== 139-2026 proposal document, page 1 of 3 (OCR) ===
CITY-COUNTY GENERAL ORDINANCE NO. 41, 2026
Proposal No. 139, 2026

PROPOSAL FOR A GENERAL ORDINANCE revising Section 441-364 of the Revised Code of the
Consolidated City and County by restricting truck traffic on certain portions of West Morris Street..

BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA:

SECTION 1. The Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County is hereby amended by adding the
sections that are underlined to read as follows:

Sec. 441-364. Vehicles on certain streets restricted.

(a) The owner of any truck having a manufacturer's rating of more than one and one-half (174) tons
capacity, that is registered in the office of the secretary of state and used principally for the
transportation and delivery of property between two (2) or more points situated within the city,
including tractors, trailers, semitrailers and farm tractors, may file with the division of construction
and business services of the department of business and neighborhood services an application,
on a form prescribed by such division, for an annual permit to allow the truck or other vehicle to
use and be driven upon the streets described in this section, upon the condition that the
maximum gross weight of such vehicle and any load shall not exceed fifteen thousand (15,000)
pounds in any instance, without obtaining from such division a special emergency permit
therefor, which special permit may be obtained without charge for any such use found by such
division to be necessary. No other streets shall be so used by any such vehicles without a special
permit therefor, as herein authorized.

(b) Upon the proper execution and filing of an application and the payment of a fee provided in
section 131-501 of the Code to the division of construction and business services of the
department of business and neighborhood services, to be credited to the city's general fund,
such division shall issue an annual permit for each truck or other vehicle, appropriately describing
it by motor number or body number, and by license number. Such permit shall not be transferable
from one (1) vehicle to another vehicle, and shall be carried by the operator of the vehicle or be
attached thereto, and exhibited by the operator of any such vehicle upon the request of any
police officer or other person charged with the duty of enforcing this chapter. The granting of any
such permit shall not be subject to the issuance fee applicable to licenses.

(c) Except as provided in subsection (d) of this section, the provisions of this section shall not apply
to any private passenger automobiles, to any vehicles carrying passengers for hire, to school
buses, to motorcycles or motor scooters, or to any governmental vehicles.

(d) No passenger bus, school bus, delivery truck the maximum gross weight of which is fifteen
thousand (15,000) pounds or greater, or tractor trailer shall use Georgia Street from
Pennsylvania Street to Capitol Avenue, unless a prior written exemption is granted by the director
of the department of public works or his designee.

(e) No motor vehicle of the following designated gross weights, with load, shall use the following
enumerated streets, except such portions thereof as may be state highways:

NO TRUCKS
10,000 POUNDS GROSS WEIGHT

SECTION 2. The expressed or implied repeal or amendment by this ordinance of any other ordinance or
part of any other ordinance does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred, or
proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this ordinance. Those rights, liabilities, and proceedings
are continued, and penalties shall be imposed and enforced under the repealed or amended ordinance as
if this ordinance had not been adopted.

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2026

=== 139-2026 proposal document, page 2 of 3 (OCR) ===
G.O. No. 41, 2026
Page 2

SECTION 3. Should any provision (section, paragraph, sentence, clause, or any other portion) of this
ordinance be declared by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, the remaining
ion or provisions shall not be affected, if and only if such remaining provisions can, without the invalid
ions, be given the effect intended by the Council in adopting this ordinance. To this end
the provisions of this ordinance are severable.

SECTION 4. This ordinance shall be in effect from and after its passage by the Council and compliance
with Ind. Code § 36-3-4-14.

The foregoing was passed by the City-County Council this 1st day of June, 2026, at 8:10 p.m.

ATTEST:

] ! p Li ° President, City-County Council

Yulonda Winfield
Clerk, City-County Council

Presented by me to the Mayor this 2nd day of June, 2026

Yulonda Winfield :

Clerk, City-County Council

Approved and signed by me this Bee day of June, 2026.

STATE OF INDIANA, MARION COUNTY)
) SS:
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS )

|, Yulonda Winfield, Clerk of the City-County Council, Indianapolis, Marion County, Indiana, do hereby certify
the above and foregoing is a full, true, and complete copy of Proposal No. 139, 2026, a Proposal for a
GENERAL ORDINANCE passed by the City-County Council on the 1st day of June, 2026, by a vote of 25
YEAS and 0 NAYS, and was retitled General Ordinance No. 41, 2026, which was signed by the Mayor on
the fo day of June, 2026, and now remains on file and on record in my office.

WITNESS my hand and the official seal of the City of Indianapolis, Indiana, this S44. day of June 2026.

ulonda Winfield O
See City-County Council

(SEAL)

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2026

=== 139-2026 proposal document, page 3 of 3 (OCR) ===
Indianapolis City - County Council RCS# 1182
2020-2023
2024-2027

6/1/2026 8:10 PM

Proposal: PROP-26 139 Ordinance: G.O. 44 (PASSED)
Sponsor: EVANS, JONES
Action: Adopt
Committee: Public Works

Yea: 25 Nay: 0 Abstain: 0 Not Voting: 0 Excused: 0

Yea - 25
Allen Cahill Hart Nielsen
Annee Delaney Jones Osili
Bain Dilk Lewis Perkins
Barth Evans Mascari Roberts
Boots Gibson McCormick Robinson
Brown-A Graves Mowery Wells
Brown-J

Nay - 0

Abstain - 0

Not Voting - 0

Excused - 0
