=== 145-2026 proposal document, page 1 of 4 (OCR) ===
CITY-COUNTY GENERAL ORDINANCE NO. 42, 2026
Proposal No. 145, 2026

PROPOSAL FOR A GENERAL ORDINANCE amending Section 151-1132 of the Revised Code of the
Consolidated City and County to remove the home address from the Councilor Disclosure Statement.

BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA:

sections that are underlined and deleting the sections that have been unrereteeen to read as follows:

Sec. 151-1132. Ethics disclosure

(a) All councilors shall file with the clerk of the council an ethics disclosure statement on or
before July 1, 2009, and thereafter annually, on or before February 1, or within thirty (30)
days of taking office.

(b) Any person filing as a candidate for office of city-county councilor, who has not filed,
during the current calendar year, an ethics disclosure statement under this section, shall
file an ethics disclosure statement under this section before, or at the same time as,

ng a declaration of candidacy under IC 3-8-2, a petition of nominations under IC 3-8-

6 or a declaration of intent to be a write-in candidate under IC 3-8-2-2.5.

(c) An ethics disclosure statement required under this section shall include the following
information:

(1) The name, tesidence-address and business address(es) of the councilor.

(2) The names, addresses, and dates of hire of all employers from whom the councilor
received compensation during the prior calendar year, and if self-employed, the
nature of the business or businesses conducted as self-employment and the name
or names, if any, under which the business or businesses are conducted.

(3) The amount of funds, in excess of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00), each of the
councilor's employer(s) received from the Consolidated City of Indianapolis-Marion
County during the prior calendar year rounded to the nearest five thousand dollars
($5,000.00).

(i) The list of "funds" shall include, but not be limited to any incentives the employer
may have received such as tax abatements or PILOTs and any contracts entered
into directly by the Councilor or the employer. The term "funds" does not include
the amount associated with a property tax appeal heard before PTABOA.

(ii) For "funds" where the monetary value may not be directly ascertainable, the

councilor shall have the employer provide identifiable information that will provide

the committee with the department the agreement is with, the date of the
agreement, and a brief description of the incentive or funds anticipated.

Council staff shall provide a separate form for employers to use if that employer

has multiple agreements with the different departments and agencies in the

consolidated city-county.

(4) The name and addresses of all employers from whom the councilor's spouse or
councilor's dependent children received compensation in excess of five thousand
dollars ($5,000.00) during the prior calendar year.

(5) The name and address of any business entity, doing business with the city or
county, or which solicits doing business with the city or county, in which the
councilor, the councilor's spouse or a councilor's dependent child:

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2026

=== 145-2026 proposal document, page 2 of 4 (OCR) ===
G.O. No. 42, 2026
Page 2

(i) Is an officer; or

(ii) Owns an equity interest or interest in the earnings and profits of such business
that, individually or in the aggregate, exceeds ten (10) percent; or

(iii) Directly or indirectly received compensation in excess of five thousand dollars
($5,000.00), in aggregate from any one such entity, in the past calendar year.

(6) The name and address of any organization which receives or applies for funding
from the city or county for which the councilor, councilor's spouse or a councilor's
dependent child serves as an officer or board member.

(7) A\list of those persons or firms from which the councilor received gifts, or any other
item, valued over one hundred dollars ($100.00), or in aggregate over two hundred
fifty dollars ($250.00), in the prior calendar year if such person or firm does, or
seeks to do, business with the city or county or seeks to influence council action.
Campaign donations, subject to IC 3-9-2 and reported in accordance with law, and
gifts from persons, including family members, with whom the councilor has an on
going social relationship not related to service on the council, are not subject to
reporting under this provision.

(8) Any items reported under clauses (1) through (4) of this subsection shall be
updated within forty-five (45) days of the change of such information.

(d) The clerk of the council, with assistance of the general counsel, shall prescribe a form
for these disclosures. Such statement shall be verified under penalties for perjury. The
clerk shall report any failures to file an ethics disclosure statement to the ethics
committee of the council for such action as that committee may deem appropriate.

(e) The clerk of the council shall post each ethic disclosure form on the council's website by
March 1 of each year.

SECTION 2. The expressed or implied repeal or amendment by this ordinance of any other ordinance or
part of any other ordinance does not affect any rights or lia 's accrued, penalties incurred, or
proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this ordinance. Those rights, liabilities, and proceedings
are continued, and penalties shall be imposed and enforced under the repealed or amended ordinance as
if this ordinance had not been adopted.

SECTION 3. Should any provision (section, paragraph, sentence, clause, or any other portion) of this
ordinance be declared by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, the remaining
on or provisions shall not be affected, if and only if such remaining provisions can, without the invalid
n or provisions, be given the effect intended by the Council in adopting this ordinance. To this end
the provisions of this ordinance are severable.

SECTION 4. This ordinance shall be in effect from and after its passage by the Council and compliance
with Ind. Code § 36-3-4-14.

The foregoing was passed by the City-County Council this 1st day of June, 2026, at 8:06 p.m.

ATTEST:

President, City-County Council

Yulonda Winfield
Clerk, City-County Council

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2026

=== 145-2026 proposal document, page 3 of 4 (OCR) ===
G.O. No. 42, 2026
Page 3

STATE OF INDIANA, MARION COUNTY)
) SS:
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS )

|, Yulonda Winfield, Clerk of the City-County Council, Indianapolis, Marion County, Indiana, do hereby certify
the above and foregoing is a full, true, and complete copy of Proposal No. 145, 2026, a Proposal for a
GENERAL ORDINANCE passed by the City-County Council on the 1st day of June, 2026, by a vote of 25
YEAS and 0 NAYS, and was retitled General Ordinance No. 42, 2026, and now remains on file and on record
in my office.

WITNESS my hand and the official seal of the City of Indianapolis, Indiana, this day of June 2026.

Yulonda Winfield Y

Clerk, City-County Council

(SEAL)

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2026

=== 145-2026 proposal document, page 4 of 4 (OCR) ===
Indianapolis City ~ County Council RCS# 1184
2020-2023
2024-2027

6/1/2026 8:15 PM

Proposal: PROP-26 145 Ordinance: G.O. 42 (PASSED)
Sponsor: MCCORMICK, GIBSON
Action: Adopt
Committee: Ethics

Yea: 21 Nay: 4 Abstain: 0 Not Voting: 0 Excused: 0
Yea - 21
Allen Cahill Graves Mowery
Annee Delaney Hart Nielsen
Bain Dilk Jones Os
Barth Evans Lewis Perkins
Boots Gibson McCormick Roberts
Brown-A
Nay - 4
Brown-J Mascari Robinson Wells
Abstain - 0
Not Voting - 0

Excused - 0
