=== 146-2021 proposal document, page 1 of 6 (OCR) ===
CITY-COUNTY SPECIAL ORDINANCE NO. 5, 2021
Proposal No. 146, 2021

A SPECIAL ORDINANCE authorizing the City of Indianapolis, Indiana, to issue one or more series of its
City of Indianapolis, Indiana Multifamily Housing Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series 2021 (with such further
or different series designation as may be necessary, desirable or appropriate, including such series
designation to indicate the year in which the bonds are issued and the project) in the maximum aggregate
principal amount not to exceed Three Million Six Hundred Seventy Thousand ($3,670,000), and approving
and authorizing other actions in respect thereto.

WHEREAS, Indiana Code 36-7-11.9 and 12, and Indiana Code 5-1-5 (collectively, the “Act”) declares
thatthe financing and refinancing of economic development facilities constitutes a public purpose; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to the Act, the City of Indianapolis, indiana (the “City”) is authorized to issue
revenue bonds for the purpose of financing, reimbursing or refinancing the costs of acquisition, construction,
renovation, improvement, installation and equipping of economic development facilities in order to foster
diversification of economic development and creation or retention of opportunities for gainful employment
and provision of affordable housing in or near the City; and

WHEREAS, a-representative of MAH Braeburn Village, LLC, an Indiana limited liability company (the
“Borrower’), has advised the Indianapolis Economic Development Commission (the "Commission’) and the
City that it proposes that the City issue, pursuant to the Act, one or more series of ifs taxable or tax-exempt
Multifamily Housing Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series 2021 (Braeburn Village Apartments) (with such
further or different series designation-as may he necessary, desirable or appropriate, including such series
designation to indicate the year in which the bonds are issued) (the “Bonds”), in an aggregate principal
amount not to exceed Three Million Six Hundred Seventy. Thousand ($3,670,000), and lend proceeds of
the Bonds to the Borrower to provide funds for refunding of the-City’s previously issued Multifamily Housing
Revenue Bonds, Series 2001 .B (Braeburn Village Apartments) which are outstanding in the principal
amount of Three Million Six Hundred Seventy Thousand ($3, 670,000) (the “Prior Bonds”) which were issued.
to provide funds to pay a portion of the costs of the acquisition, design, construction, renovation,
improvement and/or equipping of the existing multifamily housing facilities located in the City in Counci
District 19 of the City-County Council of the City and of Marion County, Indiana (the "City-County Counc!
consisting of 402 rental units in 45 buildings known as Braeburn Village Apartments, together with
functionally related and subordinate facilities, including parking and recreational facilities located on
approximately 33 acres of.land at 8200 East 21st Street (the “Development”) owned by Borrower; and

WHEREAS, the Commission has studied the Development and the proposed refinancing of the
Development and its effects on the health and general welfare of the City and its citizens; and

WHEREAS, the creation or retention of opportunities for gainful employment and the provision of
quality, affordable, multifamily housing to be achieved. by the refunding of the Prior Bonds willbe of public
benefit to the health, safety. and general welfare of the City and its citizens; and

WHEREAS, pursuant fo and in.accordance with the Act, the City desires to refinance the Prior Bonds
by issuing not to exceed Three Million Six Hundred Seventy Thousand ($3,670,000) aggregate principal
amount of its Bonds; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 147(f) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”),
and Treas. Reg. 1.147(f}-1, the Commission published notice of a public hearing (the “Public Hearing”) on
the proposed issuance of the Bonds to finance all or a portion of the Development, and on April 14, 2021,
the Commission held the Public Hearing. for the purpose of receiving evidence and testimony on the
Development and maiters related to the proposed-financing thereof and heard all persons interested in the
proceedings and. considered written remonstrances and objections, if-any; and

WHEREAS, following such Public Hearing, the Com ion adopted a resolution (the "EDC
Resolution”) making findings that the refinancing of the Development complies with the purposes and
provisions of the Act and that such financing will be of benefit to the health and welfare of the City, will
provide affordable housing, and that the refinancing of the Development will not have an adverse
competitive effect or impact on any similar facility already constructed or operating in the same market area
or in or about the City; and

SPECIAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2021

=== 146-2021 proposal document, page 2 of 6 (OCR) ===
S.O. No. 5, 20214
Page 2

WHEREAS, pursuant to and in accordance with the Act, the City desires to provide funds necessary to
refinance the Development by issuing the Bonds; and

WHEREAS, the-Act provides that such revenue bonds may be secured by and issued pursuant to the
terms of a trust indenture between the City anda corporate trustee; and

WHEREAS, the City intends to issue the Bonds consistent with the terms of this Ordinance .and
pursuant to a Trust Indenture, to be dated the first day of the month in which the Bonds are sold or delivered
or such other date as-the officers of the City may hereafter approve) (the “Indenture’), by and between the
City and The Bank of New York Melion TrustCempany, N.A. (the “Trustee’”), in order to effect the refunding
of the Prior Bonds in accordance with the terms of the Loan Agreement, to be dated as of the first day of
the month in which the Bonds are sold or delivered (or such other date as the officers of the City may
hereafter approve) (the “Loan Agreement’), by and between the City. and the Borrower with respect to the
Bonds and the Development; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to the Loan Agreement, the Borrower will make representations, warranties and
commitments with respect to the Development and the use of the proceeds of the Bonds to be provided to
the Borrower in accordance with the terms thereof, and

WHEREAS, no member of_this City-County Council has any pecuniary interest in-the Loan-Agreement
or any employment or other contract made under the provisions of the Act and related to the Bonds
authorized herein, which pecuniary-interest has not been fully disclosed to the City-County Council and no
such member has voted on any such matter, all in accordance with the provisions of Indiana Code 36-7-
42-16; ana

WHEREAS, there has previously been submitted to the Commission for its approval the forms of the
Bonds, the indenture, the Loan Agreement, the Regulatory Agreement and- Declaration of Restrictive
Covenants among the City, the Trustee and the Borrower, and the Bond Purchase Agreement among: the
Borrower, the City and Braeburn Village Bonds, LLC, an Indiana limited liability company, as the purchaser of
the Bonds (the “Bond Purchase Agreement’) (collectively, the “Financing Documents”), and a form of this
proposed Ordinance-(the “Ordinance’) authorizing the Bonds and forms of Financing Documents, which are
by this reference incorporated herein; and

WHEREAS, based upon the EDC Resolution, this City-County Council hereby finds and determines
that the refunding approved by the Commission. will be of benefit to the health and general welfare of the
citizens of the City, complies with the provisions of the Act and the amount necessary to refinance a portion
-of the costs of the Development, will require the issuance, sale and delivery of one or more series of revenue
bonds.in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed Three Million Six Hundred Seventy Thousand Dollars
($3,670,000): now therefore:

BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA:

SECTION 1. After considering the evidence presented in the EDC Report and EDC Resolution, it is hereby
found, determined, ratified and confirmed that the financing of the economic development facilities referred
to in the Financing Documents consisting of the Development, the issuance and sale of the Bonds, and the
use of the net proceeds thereof by the Borrower to finance all or a portion of the Development, will: (i)
promote a substantial Hiversification of industry, the creation or retention of business

elihood of diver:
opportunities and the creation or retention-of opportunities for gainful employment within the jurisdiction of
the City and the provision of quality, affordable, multifamily rental housing within the jurisdiction of the City;
(ii) serve a public purpose, and will_be of benefit to the health and general welfare of the City; (iii) comply
with the purposes and provisions of the Act and: it is in the public interest that the City take such lawful
action as determined fo be necessary or desirable to encourage the diversification of industry, the creation
or retention of business opportunities, and the creation or retention of opportunities for gainful employment
and providing affordable multifamily housing within the jurisdiction of the City; and (iv) not have a material
adverse competitive effect on any similar facilities already constructed or operating in or near the City.

SECTION 2. The forms of the Financing Documents presented herewith are hereby approved, with any

and all such changes as may be deemed necessary, desirable or appropriate by the Mayor and the Clerk

of the City-County Council (the “Clerk”) and all such documents shall be kept on file by the Clerk of the City
SPECIAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2021

=== 146-2021 proposal document, page 3 of 6 (OCR) ===
S.O. No. 5, 2024
Page 3

or the Controller of the City (the “Controller’). In compliance with Indiana Code 36-1-5-4, two (2) copies of
the Financing Documents are on file in the office of the Clerk for public inspection.

SECTION.3. The City is authorized to issue the Bonds in one or more series, any series of which may be
taxable or tax-exempt for federal income tax purposes, in the maximum aggregate principal amount not to
exceed Three Million Six Hundred Seventy Thousand ($3,670,000), with a maximum term not to exceed
forty (40) years from the date of the issuance of any series of the Bonds and with a maximum interest rate
not to exceed ten percent (10%) per annum, for the purpose of refunding the Prior Bonds as set forth in the
Financing Documents. The Bonds. shail be payable as to principal and interest upon such terms and
conditions as otherwise provided. in-the Financing Documents and this Ordinance. The Bonds may be
subject to mandatory tender or optional redemption at one or more times prior to maturity. The Bonds shall
never constitute a general obligation of, moral obligation of, an indebtedness of, or charge against the
general credit of the City or a pledge of the full faith or credit of the City within the purview of any
constitutional or statutory limitation or provision.

SECTION 4. The Mayor and the Controller are authorized and directed to sell the Bonds to the purchaser or
purchasers thereof at a price not less than ninety-eight percent (98%) of the aggregate principal amount
thereof plus accrued interest, ifany, at a rate of interest not to exceed ten percent (10%) per annum, and with
a final maturity date-no later than forty (40) years from-the date of the issuance of any series of the Bonds.
The Bond Purchase Agreement, in the form and substance acceptable to the Mayor and the Clerk,-is hereby
authorized and approved, and the Mayor and the Clerk are hereby authorized and directed to execute and
deliver the Bond Purchase Agreement in form and substance acceptable to them and consistent with the
terms and conditions set forth in this Ordinance, with such to be conclusively evidenced by their execution
thereof.

SECTION 5. The Mayor and the Clerk are authorized and directed to execute the Financing Documents,
and the Mayor, the Controller, the Clerk and any other officer of the City are authorized and directed to
execute such.other documents approved or authorized herein and any other document-which may be
necessary, appropriate or desirable to consummate the transaction contemplated by the Financing
Documents and this Ordinance, and their execution is hereby confirmed on behalf of the City. The
signatures of the Mayor and the Clerk on the Bonds which may be necessary or desirable to consummate
the transaction, and their execution-is hereby confirmed on behaif-of the City. The signatures.of the Mayor
and the Clerk onthe Bonds may be facsimile signatures. The Mayor, the Clerk, the Controller and any other
officer of the City-are authorized to arrange for the delivery of the Bonds fo the purchaser, payment for
which will be made inthe manner set forth in the Financing Documents. The Mayor and the Clerk may, by
their execution of the Financing Documents requiring their signatures and imprinting of their facsimile
signatures thereon, approve any and all such changes therein and also in those Financing Documents
which do not require the signature of the Mayor or the Clerk without further approval of this- City-County
Council or the Commission if such changes do not affect terms set forth in Indiana Code 36-7-12-27(a)(1)
through (a)(10).

SECTION 6. The provisions of this Ordinance and the Financing Documents shall constitute a contract
binding between the City and the holder or holders of the Bonds and after the issuance of said Bonds, this
Ordinance shall not be repealed or amended in any respect which would adversely affect the right of such
holder or holders so long as said Bonds or the interest thereon remains unpaid.

SECTION 7. Subject to the obligations of the Borrower set forth in the respective Financing Documents
and/or the certificates or agreements of such Borrower to be executed upon the issuance of the Bonds, if
any of the Bonds are issued on-a tax-exempt basis for purposes of federal income taxation, the City will use
its best efforts fo restrict the use of the proceeds of the Bonds in such a manner and to expectations at the
time the Bonds are delivered to the purchasers thereof, so that they will not constitute “arbitrage bonds”
under Section 148 of the Code and the regulations promulgated thereunder, or to preserve any other
desired tax status under the Code. The Mayor, the Controller and the Clerk, or any other officer having
responsibility with respect to the issuance of the Bonds, are authorized and directed, alone or in conjunction
with any of the foregoing, or with any other officer, employee, consultant or agent of the City, to deliver a
certificate for inclusion in the transcript of proceedings for the Bonds, setting forth the facts, estimates and
circumstances and reasonable expectations pertaining to the use of the Bond proceeds as of the date of
issuance thereof.

SPECIAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2021

=== 146-2021 proposal document, page 4 of 6 (OCR) ===
S.0. No. 5, 2021
Page 4

SECTION 8. No recourse under or upon any obligation, covenant, acceptance or agreement contained in
this Ordinance, the Financing Documents or under any judgment obtained against the City, including
without limitation its Economic Development Commission, or by the enforcement of any assessment or by
any legal or equitable proceeding by virtue of any constitution or statute or otherwise, or under any
circumstances, under or independent of the Financing Documents, shall be had against any member,
director, or officer or attorney, as such, past, present, or future, of the City, including without limitation its
Economic Development Commission, either directly or through the City, or otherwise, for the payment for
or to the City or any receiver thereof or for or to any holder of the Bonds secured thereby, or otherwise, of
any sum that may remain due and unpaid by the City upon any of the Bonds. Any and all personal liability
of every nature, whether at common law or in equity, or by statute or by constitution or otherwise, of any
such member, director, or officer or attorney, as such, to respond by reason of any act or omission on his
or her part or otherwise for, directly or indirectly, the payment for or to the City or any receiver thereof, or
for or to any owner or holder of the Bonds, or otherwise, of any sum that may remain due and unpaid upon
the Bonds hereby secured or any at them, shall be expressly. waived and released as a condition of and
consideration for the execution and delivery of the Financing Documents and the issuance, sale and
delivery of the Bonds.

SECTION 9: If-any section, paragraph or provision of this Ordinance shall be held to be invalid or
unenforceable for any reason, the invalidity-or unenforceability of such section, paragraph or provision shall
not affect.any of the remaining provisions of this Ordinance.

SECTION 10. All ordinances, resolutions and orders or parts thereof, in conflict with the provisions of this
Ordinance are, to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.

‘SECTION 11. It is hereby determined that all formal actions of the City-County Council relating to the
adoption-of this Ordinance were taken in one or more open meetings of the City-County Council, that all
deliberations of the City-County Council and of its committees, if any, which resulted in formal action, were
in meetings open to the public, and that all such meetings were convened, held and conducted in
compliance with applicable legal.requirements, including Indiana Code 5-14-1.5, as amended.

SECTION 12. The Mayor, the Controller, the Clerk and.any other officer of the City are hereby authorized and
directed, in the name and on behalf of the City, to execute, attest and deliver-such. further instruments and
documents, and to take such further actions, in the name of the City as in their judgment shall be necessary
or advisable in order fully to consummate the transactions described herein and carry out the purposes of
this Ordinance, and any such documents heretofore executed and delivered and any such actions
heretofore taken, be, and hereby are, ratified and approved.

SECTION 13. This Ordinance shail be in full force and effect upon adoption and compliance with Indiana
Code 36-3-4-14.

The foregoing was passed by the City-County Council this 7 day of June, 2021, at 8:54 p.m.

ATTEST:

Pb lag hos , City-County Council

SaRita Hughes
Clerk, City-County Council

Presented by me to the Mayor this 8" day of June, 2021.

EP bs

SaRita Hughes ~—
Clerk, City-County Council

SPECIAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2021

=== 146-2021 proposal document, page 5 of 6 (OCR) ===
S.O. No. 5, 2021

Page 5
Approved and signed by me this / [# day of June, 2021.
Jo . Hoggett, Mayor of
STATE OF INDIANA, MARION COUNTY)
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS “s

|, SaRita Hughes, Clerk of the City-County Council, Indianapolis, Marion County, Indiana, do hereby certify

the above and foregoing is a full, true, and complete copy of Proposal No. 146, 2021, a Proposal for a

SPECIAL ORDINANCE passed by the City-County Council on the 7 day of June, 2021, by a vote of 24

YEAS ang 0 NAYS and was retitled Special Ordinance No. 5, 2021, which was signed by the Mayor on the
{ | day of June, 2021, and now remains on file and on record in my office.

WITNESS my hand and the official seal of the City of Indianapolis, Indiana, this |! Fay of June, 2021.

Pht:

SaRita Hughes
Clerk, City-County Council

(SEAL)

SPECIAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2021

=== 146-2021 proposal document, page 6 of 6 (OCR) ===
Indianapolis City - County Council RCS# 162
2020-2023
2020-2023

6/7/2021 8:54 PM

Proposal: PROP21- 146 Ordinance: $.0. 5 (PASSED)
Sponsor: Ray
Action: Adopt
Committee: Metro. and Econ. Dev.

Yea: 24 Nay: 0 Abstain: 0 Not Voting: 0 Excused: 1

Yea - 24

Adamson Dilk Jackson

Annee Evans-E Jones

Bain Evans-J Larrison

Boots Graves Lewis

Brown Gray Mascari

Carlino Hart McCormick Robinson
Nay - 0
Abstain - 0
Excused - 1

Barth

Excused - 0
