=== 161-2023 proposal document, page 1 of 3 (OCR) ===
CITY-COUNTY GENERAL ORDINANCE NO. 36, 2023
Proposal No. 162, 2023

PROPOSAL FOR A GENERAL ORDINANCE to amend the Revised Code to allow for the establishment of
greenway crossing speed limit zones.

BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA:

SECTION 1. Chapter 441 of the Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County, regarding Traffic,
specifically Article Ill, Division 2 regarding Speed, be and is hereby amended by the addition of a new section
to include the language that is underscored as follows:

Sec. 441-326. — Greenway crossing zones.

(a) There is hereby created within the consolidated city areas defined and established as greenway
crossing zones, which shall be defined as that portion of any street or highway contiquous to any at-grade
crossing of a greenway with the street or highway. The dimensions of said zone at each greenway crossing
shall vary depending on the posted speed limit along the street or highway in each direction from the crossing,
amount of traffic on the street or highway in the vicinity of the crossing, amount of traffic on the greenway trail
in the vicinity of the crossing, roadway and greenway trail geometrics in the area, and_any other criteria as
determined by the engineering division of the department of public works.

(b) The engineering division of the department_of public works, following an engineering and traffic
investigation and based on the factors set forth in subsection (a), shall determine an appropriate speed limit for
each greenway crossing zone established pursuant to subsection (a).

(c)_No person shall drive a motor vehicle on any street_or highway within a greenway crossing zone
established pursuant to subsection (a) ata speed greater than the speed /imit prescribed pursuant to subsection

(b).

(d)_No restriction under this section shall be applicable until the department of public works posts a notice
of its determination of a speed limit for the greenway crossing zone on its website at least thirty (30) days before
posting signage or other traffic control devices, posts reasonable and adequate signs and/or other traffic control
devices indicating where such greenway crossing zones begin, the reduced speed limit within the zone, and
where such zones end or the speed limit for the section of street or highway that follows.

(e) Where no special hazard exists, the speed limit prescribed for a greenway crossing zone pursuant to
subsection (b) shall be lawful, but any speed in excess of that limit shall be prima facie evidence that the speed
is not reasonable or prudent and is unlawful. When a special hazard does exist, the driver of a motor vehicle
shall reduce their speed such that is reasonable and prudent under the conditions, having regard to the actual
and potential hazards then existing, the posted speed limit notwithstanding. For purposes of this subsection
a special hazard shall exist when users of a greenway trail are within the crossing of a street or highway or are
adjacent thereto awaiting an opportunity to cross the street or highway.

SECTION 2. The expressed or implied repeal or amendment by this ordinance of any other ordinance or part
of any other ordinance does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penaities incurred, or proceedings
begun prior to the effective date of this ordinance. Those rights, liabilities, and proceedings are continued,
and penalties shall be imposed and enforced under the repealed or amended ordinance as if this ordinance
had not been adopted.

SECTION 3. Should any provision (section, paragraph, sentence, clause, or any other portion) of this
ordinance be declared by a court of competent jurisdiction fo be invalid for any reason, the remaining
provision or provisions shall not be affected, if and only if such remaining provisions can, without the invalid
provision or provisions, be given the effect intended by the Council in adopting this ordinance. To this end
the provisions of this ordinance are severable.

SECTION 4. This ordinance shall be in effect from and after its passage by the Council and compliance with
Ind. Code § 36-3-4-14.

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2023

=== 161-2023 proposal document, page 2 of 3 (OCR) ===
G.O. No. 36, 2023
Page 2

The foregoing was passed by the City-County Council this 10" day of July, 2023, at 9:01 p.m.

ATTEST:

Vop Osili

Presid ity-County Council

Yulonda Winfield
Clerk, City-County Council

Presented by me to the Mayor this 11" day of July, 2023

Yulonda Winfield
Clerk, City-County Council

Approved and signed by me this th day of July, 2023. xh
(7) Sept . al

Joseph H. Hogsett, Mayor

STATE OF INDIANA, MARION COUNTY)
) ss:
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS )

I, Yulonda Winfield, Clerk of the City-County Council, Indianapolis, Marion County, Indiana, do hereby certify
the above and foregoing is a full, true, and complete copy of Proposal No. 162, 2023, a Proposal for a
GENERAL ORDINANCE passed by the City-County Council on the 10" day of July, 2023, by a vote of 23
YEAS and 0. NAYS, and was retitled General Ordinance No. 36, 2023, which was. signed by the Mayor on
the /+4 day of July, 2023, and now remains on file and on record in my office.

WITNESS my hand and the official seal of the City of Indianapolis, Indiana, this [4 Asay of July, 2023.

Yulonda Winfield
Clerk, City-County Council
(SEAL)

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2023

=== 161-2023 proposal document, page 3 of 3 (OCR) ===
Indianapolis City - County Council

Proposal: PROP-23 162

2020-2023
2020-2023

7/10/2023 9:01 PM

Ordinance: G.O. 36

Sponsor: ADAMSON, BARTH, BOOTS, CARLINO, MCCORMICK

Action: Adopt
Committee: Public Works

Yea: 23 Nay: 0
Yea - 23
Adamson Dilk
Annee Evans-E
Bain Evans-J
Barth Graves
Boots Gray
Brown Hart
Nay -0
Abstain - 0
Excused - 1
Ray
Not Voting - 1

Carlino

Abstain: 0

Not Voting: 1

Jackson
Jones
Larrison
Lewis
Mascari
McCormick

(PASSED)

RCS# 1265
Excused: 1
Mowery
Oliver
Osili
Potts
Robinson
