=== 175-2022 proposal document, page 1 of 9 (OCR) ===
CITY-COUNTY GENERAL ORDINANCE NO. 25, 2022
Proposal No. 175, 2022

PROPOSAL FOR A GENERAL ORDINANCE to amend Chapter 441 and the Complete Street Policy in
Chapter 431, Article VIII of the Revised Code.

BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA:

SECTION 1. The title to Article VIil of Chapter 431 of the "Revised Code of the Consolidated City
and County" is hereby amended by the addition of the language that is underscored, to read as follows:

ARTICLE VIil. - COMPLETE STREETS POLICY

SECTION 2. Section 431-801 of the “Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County” is hereby
amended by the deletion of the language that is stricken-through and by the addition of the language that is
underscored, to read as follows:

Sec. 431-801. — Definitions-of- complete streets.

In addition to the definitions in section 431-100 of the Code, as used in this article the following
terms shall have the meaning ascribed to them in this section.

“Complete Streets" means a streets or highway that are-is designed and operated as part of an
interconnected multimodal transportation system to enable safe, reliable, efficient and equitable
access for all users, in that pedestrians, users of personal mobility devices, transit riders, bicyclists,
moterists_and_—public_transportation—users—and operators of vehicles. motorcycles and motor
vehicles of all ages, and~abilities, disabilities, races, genders, gender identities, incomes and
socioeconomic status are able to safely and concurrently move on, along and across a-the street_or

highway.

“Construction” shall mean the planning, supervising, inspecting, actual buliding, draining, and
all expenses incidental to the construction of a street_or highway. including reconstruction to a
degree that new, supplementary. or substantially improved traffic service is provided, and
significant geometric or structural improvements are effected.

“Exception” shall mean to allow an activity in the roadway to which the complete sireets policy
established in this article is applicable to be done or performed.without applying the complete streets
policy in the planning, programming, design, and performance or construction of the activity.

“Maintenance” shall mean the constant making of needed repairs to a street or highway to
preserve a smooth surface and for adequate drainage, marked and quarded by protective
structures for public safety and, as to bridges, means the constant making of needed repairs to
preserve a smooth surface thereon and the safety and preservation of the bridge and its
approaches, together with the substructure and superstructure thereof, By way of example, not of
limitation, activities constituting maintenance are crack sealing, pot hole patching, strip patching,
street sweeping, the clearing of drainage inlets and outlets, the repair or replacement of guardrails
and the repair or replacement of traffic control signals. signs and markings.

"Restoration and rehabilitation” means work required to return the existing structure (roadway
pavement or bridge deck) to a suitable condition for an additional stage of construction (bridge deck
protective system or resurfacing) or to a suitable condition to perform satisfactorily for a substantial

time period.

“Resurfacing” means the placement of additional pavement layers (including protective systems
for bridge decks) over the existing (or restored or rehabilitated) roadway or bridge deck surface to
provide additional strength or to improve serviceability for a substantial time period.

“Transportation improvement project’ means a capital_improvement_project_ involving the
construction, reconstruction, resurfacing. or restoration and rehabilitation of a_street_or highway
under the jurisdiction of the city.

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2022

=== 175-2022 proposal document, page 2 of 9 (OCR) ===
G.O. No. 25, 2022

Page 2

“Underserved neighborhoods” means those areas identified within the Transportation Equity

Index developed as part of the transportation segment of the Comprehensive Plan of Marion County

with the greatest _need for alternative forms of transportation, taking into account areas with the

following combined densities. persons below 200% the federal poverty level, adults aged 65 years

and older, youth aged 10 through 17 years, zero-vehicle households, persons with limited mobility or

mobility impairment, persons with limited English proficiency, and persons who self-describe as non-
White/Caucasian.

SECTION 3. Section 431-802 of the "Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County” is hereby
amended by the deletion of the language that is stricken-through and by the addition of the language that is
underscored, to read as follows:

Sec. 431-802. — Complete streets policy.

Fhe-It shall be the policy of the city shall-to develop a safe, reliable, efficient, integrated and
connected multimodal transportation system that will promote access, mobility and health for all
‘users, and will ensure that the safety and convenience of all users of the transportation system are
accommodated, including pedestrians, users of persona! mobility devices, transit riders, bicyclists,
users-of mass-transitand operators of vehicles, motorcycles, and motor vehicles, peeple of all ages,
and-abilities, disabilities, races, genders, gender identities, incomes and socioeconomic status,
faotorists—as well as authorized emergency respenders—vehicies, buses, commercial vehicles,
trucks, trailers and tractors, freight providers and adjacent land users, while enabling access to
destinations such as home, school, work, recreation and retail destinations.

SECTION 4. Section 431-803 of the "Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County" is hereby
amended by the deletion of the language that is stricken-through and by the addition of the language that is
underscored, to read as follows:

licability and implementation.

Sec. 431-803. - Scope-of Complete Streets_applicability—A,

(a) The complete streets policy is applicable to:

(1) All-Tra

(2)_ Transportation improvement projects undertaken by any person other than the city (e.g.,

the indianapolis Public Transportation Corporation).

(3) Privately constructed streets and parking lots in Marion County.

(4) Public utilities undertaking activities to construct, relocate, operate and maintain a public
utility facility within the roadway of a street or highway which involves activities falling within the
meaning of “construction” as defined in this chapter.

(5) Franchisees undertaking activities to construct, relocate, operate and maintain a facility
within the roadway of a street or highway pursuant to _a franchise granted by the council pursuant
to chapter 645 of the Code which involves activities falling within the meaning of “construction” as

defined in this chapter.

(6)__Any other person authorized to use or occupy the roadway of a street_or highway
pursuant to_a permit, encroachment license, operating agreement, or as otherwise may be
established by the Code which undertakes activities to construct, relocate, operate and maintain
a facility within the roadway of a street_or highway which involves activities falling within the
meaning of “construction” as defined in this chapter,

(b) -The city shall view the
complete streets policy as integral to everyday transportation decision-making practices_and
processes and shall implement the complete streets policy-as-follows:

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2022

=== 175-2022 proposal document, page 3 of 9 (OCR) ===
G.O. No. 25, 2022
Page 3

(1)_By causing relevant_departments, agencies, or committees to incorporate complete
streets principles into all existing plans, standards, regulations and programs affecting streets or
highways and the city’s transportation network, including, by way of example not limitation,
ReZone Indy, the Comprehensive Plan of Marion County, Transportation Equity Index, historic
preservation plans, the transportation capital program, transit, pedestrian, bicycle and trail master
plans, and an Art in the Right-of-Way Policy and a Tactical Urbanism Policy adopted by the board

of public works.

(2) By encouraging staff_professional development_and training on issues related to_non-
motorized forms of transportation through attending conferences, classes, seminars and
workshops on the subject.

(3) By identifying all current_and potential future sources of funding for street and highway
improvements.

(4) By_promoting_inter-departmental_project_ communication and coordination among city
departments with an interest _in_ activities that occur within the roadway of city streets and
highways in order to better use fiscal resources, including establishment of a cross-departmental
protocol for application of the complete streets policy.

(5) By developing educational materials regarding complete streets principles and outreach
processes which prioritize equitable and inclusive community engagement so that all users of the
city’s transportation system can understand and safely utilize complete streets project elements
and to make such materials available on the complete streets web page required under section
431-807 of the Code

(6-6) The—city-shallBy fostering partnerships with the State of Indiana, neighboring
communities and counties, and-developers, businesses and school districts to develop facilities
and accommodations that further the city's complete streets policy and to continue such
infrastructure beyond the city's borders.

(4 7) Fhe-city-shallBy the department of public works approaching every transportation
improvement and-project phase-undertaken for the city as an opportunity to create safer, more
accessible streets and“highways for all users by applying the complete streets policy in its These
i imi planning, programming, design, Fi isith

, an

d maintenance.—Other

(8) By the department of public works and the department of business and neighborhood
services requiring other persons undertaking a transportation improvement project to apply the
complete_streets policy in their planning, programming, design and construction of a
transportation improvement project as a condition of approval of the project and the issuance of
permits to construct the project.

(9) By the department of metropolitan development and the department of business and
neighborhood services requiring persons proposing to privately construct streets or parking lots to
apply the complete streets policy in their planning, programming, design and construction of a
street or parking lot as a condition of approval of the associated development project and the
issuance of permits to construct the street or parking lot.

(10) By the department of business and neighborhood services requiring all persons, public
utilities and franchisees to-apply the complete streets policy in their planning, programing, design
and construction of facilities which such person, public utility or franchisee may have within the
roadway of a street or highway as a condition of approval of permits for conducting activities in

the roadway.

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2022

=== 175-2022 proposal document, page 4 of 9 (OCR) ===
G.O. No. 25, 2022
Page 4

SECTION 5. Section 431-804 of the "Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County" is hereby
amended by striking Section 431-804 in its entirety and adopting a new Section 431-804, to read as follows:

Sec. 431-804. - Exemptions; exceptions.
(a) Exemptions. The following are exempted from application of the complete streets policy:

(1) Construction undertaken by the Indiana Department of Transportation (INDOT) on streets
or highways designated as part of the state highway system. However, where possible the
department of public works should consistently advocate INDOT to consider complete streets
principles and the effect of its projects on all users of city streets or highways, including those city
streets or highways that cross or otherwise intersect with a designated state highway.

(2) Construction undertaken by a municipality, municipal corporation or other political
subdivision in Marion County on streets or highways under its jurisdiction. However, where
possible the department of public works should encourage such municipalities, municipal
corporations and political subdivisions to consider complete streets principles and the effect of
their projects on all users of city streets or highways, including those streets or highways that
cross or otherwise intersect with a street or highway under their jurisdiction.

(3) Maintenance performed by the department of public works on streets or highways under
the city's jurisdiction which are determined, in writing, by the director of public works as being
impracticable or inapplicable.

(b) Exceptions. For any activity to which the complete streets policy applies, a request for an
exception shall be determined by established departmental criteria and accompanied by supporting
documentation and data demonstrating that application of complete street principles is unnecessary,
unduly cost prohibitive, inappropriate because it would be contrary to public safety, or other available
means or factors indicate an absence of need, including future need. Measures such as average
daily counts of traffic, pedestrian or bicycle use of a street or highway alone shall not be justification
for an exception to the complete streets. policy. If granted, the exception shall be made in writing, and
all documentation related thereto shalt be publicly available.

(c) The following are empowered to grant exceptions to the complete streets policy based on the
criteria set forth’in subsection (b) above:

(1) For a transportation improvement project undertaken by the department of public works
for the city, the director of public works may grant an exception.

(2) For a transportation improvement project undertaken by any person other than the city,
the director of public works may grant an exception.

(3) For privately constructed streets and parking lots that are a part of a subdivision plat, the
plat committee of the metropolitan development commission may grant an exception.

(4) For privately constructed streets and parking lots that are not a part of a subdivision plat,
the director of the department of business and neighborhood services may grant an exception.

(5) For public utilities undertaking activities to construct, relocate, operate and maintain a
public utility facility within the roadway of a street or highway which involves activities falling within
the meaning of “construction” as defined in this chapter, the director of the department of
business and neighborhood services may grant an exception.

(6) For franchisees or any other person authorized to use or occupy the roadway of a street
or highway pursuant to a permit, encroachment license, operating agreement, or as otherwise
may be established by the Code undertaking activities to construct, relocate, operate and
maintain a facility within the roadway of a street or highway which involves activities falling within
the meaning of “construction” as defined in this chapter, the director of the department of
business and neighborhood services may grant an exception.

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2022

=== 175-2022 proposal document, page 5 of 9 (OCR) ===
G.O, No. 25, 2022
Page 5

(d) Reporting on exceptions shall be done in accordance with section 431-807 of the Code.

SECTION 6. Section 431-805 of the “Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County" is hereby
amended by the deletion of the language that is stricken-through and by the addition of the language that is
underscored, to read as follows:

Sec. 431-805. - Design standards.

(a) The city shall follow accepted or adopted design standards and use the best and latest
n standards concerning complete streets principles available in its planning, programming,
n_and construction of transportation improvement projects. In recognition of context sensitivity,
public input and the needs of many users, a flexible, innovative and balanced approach that follows
other appropriate design standards may be considered, provided that a comparable level of safety for
all users is present.

(b) The transportation standards adopted by the board of public works shall include standards for
application of the complete streets policy, and the department of public works shall reqularly review
and request that the board update the standards to incorporate the latest design quidance, standards
and recommendations regarding complete streets.

(c)_ The department of metropolitan development _shall regularly review the street_design
standards of the subdivision control ordinance and_any related regulations which apply to private
construction of new streets and request updates to them to incorporate the latest design quidance,
standards and recommendations regarding complete streets.

SECTION 7. Section 431-806 of the “Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County” is hereby
amended by the deletion of the language that is stricken-through and by the addition of the language that
is underscored, to read as follows:

Sec. 431-806. - Performance measures.

(a) The city shall measure the success of this Complete Streets_the complete streets policy using,
by way of example but not limited to, the following performance measures:

* Total miles of bike lanes.

> Linear feet of new sidewalks or other pedestrian accommodations.

* Number of new curb ramps installed along city streets_or highways.

+ Number of Gcrosswalk and intersection improvements.

» Percentage of transit stops accessible via sidewalks and curb ramps-(beginning-in-dune 2044),

+ Rate of crashes, injuries, and fatalities by mode.

+ Percentage of private and public projects applying complete streets principles which are
located within one-half mile of a school.

+ Percentage of private and public projects applying complete streets principles which are
located in underserved neighborhoods.

« Number of private and public projects for which exceptions to the complete streets policy are
granted and the percentage of those granted exceptions located in underserved

neighborhoods.
« Other relevant measures as determined by the city.

oen-inefor-each-of-the-abeve_-measures.-Reporting on ‘performance measures shall be done in
accordance with section 431-807 of the Code.

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2022

=== 175-2022 proposal document, page 6 of 9 (OCR) ===
G.O. No. 25, 2022
Page 6

SECTION 8. Section 431-807 of the “Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County” is hereby
amended by striking Section 431-807 in its entirety and adopting a new Section 431-807, to read as follows:

Sec. 431-807. - Reporting.

(a) Complete streets web page. The city shall create a page on its internet website as a
repository of information regarding the complete streets policy, including educational materials,
design standards, reference materials and the reporting required by this section.

(b) Performance measures reporting. The department of public works, the department of
metropolitan development (on behalf of the plat committee) and the department of business and
neighborhood services shall each create individual numeric benchmarks for each of the performance
measures set forth in section 431-806 of the Code as a means of tracking and measuring the annual
performance of the complete streets policy and shall post a report on each of the performance
measures on the complete streets web page on an annual basis. The reports shall identify barriers
and solutions to complete streets implementation for all performance measures.

(c) Exceptions reporting. The director of public works, the director of metropolitan development
(on behalf of the plat committee) and the director of business and neighborhood services shall each
prepare a quarterly report summarizing all exceptions to the complete streets policy granted in the
preceding quarter pursuant to section 431-804(b) of the Code and shall post the quarterly reports on
the complete streets web page, with each reporting entity’s annual report fo be posted on the web
page and submitted to the council. The annual reports shall be presented by the reporting entities to
their respective council committees.

SECTION 9. Chapter 441 of the “Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County” is hereby amended by
the addition of a new Article VI, to read as follows:

ARTICLE VI. - FATAL CRASH REVIEW TEAM
Sec. 441-600. ~ Fatal Crash Review Team.

(a) A fatal crash review team is hereby established and shall be comprised of the following
members:

(1) A sworn member of the Indianapolis metropolitan police department appointed by the
chief of police;

(2) An employee of the department of public works appointed by the director of public works,
which employee should preferably be a traffic engineer;

(3) An employee of the department of metropolitan development by the director of
metropolitan development, which employee should preferably be a transportation planner,
and

(4) Two (2) persons appointed by the council, at least one (1) of which shall represent an
organization which advocates on behalf of pedestrians and bicyclists.

(b) Appointees shall serve at the pleasure of the appointing authority.
(c) Appointees under subsection (a)(4):

(i) Must be residents of Marion County;

(ii) Shall serve a term of two (2) years; and

(iii) May be reappointed for successive terms.

(d) Vacancies under subsection (a)(4) shail be filled for the remainder of the term.

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2022

=== 175-2022 proposal document, page 7 of 9 (OCR) ===
G.O. No. 25, 2022
Page 7

Sec. 441-601. — Review of fatal crashes; recommendations.

(a) Whenever a vehicular crash occurs within the jurisdiction of the city resulting in the death of
any person, the Indianapolis metropolitan police department shall initiate a review of the
circumstances of the crash by the fatal crash review team after completion of the police investigation
of the crash and any determination by the Marion County prosecutor whether criminal charges will be
filed in relation to the crash.

(b) The fatal crash review team shall meet one (1) or more times as necessary to review all
relevant information about the fatal crash to determine whether the design, the traffic controls, or
other elements of the existing roadway on the streets or highways where the crash occurred could be
improved in a way that will increase safety of all users of that street or highway.

(c) At the conclusion of its review, the fatal crash review team shall make a written report to the
mayor, the chief of police and the director of public works recommending roadway design changes,
improved traffic controls, or other improvements or mitigation measures that the team determines are
advisable and feasible to implement in- order to improve the safety of all users of that street or
highway where the fatal crash occurred. Written reports shall be posted to the city and county
website.

SECTION 10. The expressed or implied repeal or amendment by this ordinance of any other ordinance or
part of any other ordinance does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred, or
proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this ordinance. Those rights, fiabilities, and proceedings
are continued, and penalties shail be imposed and enforced under the repealed or amended ordinance as
if this ordinancehad not been adopted.

SECTION 11. Should any provision (section, paragraph, sentence, clause, or any other portion) of this
ordinance be declared by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, the remaining
provision or provisions shall not be affected, if and only if such remaining provisions can, without the
invalid provision or provisions, be given the effect intended by the Council in adopting this ordinance. To
this endthe provisions of this ordinance are severable.

SECTION 12. This ordinance shall be in effect from and after its passage by the Council and compliance
with Ind. Code § 36-3-4-14.

The foregoing was passed by the City-County Council this 6" day of June, 2022, at 8:01 p.m.

ATTEST:

ity-County Council

Ph Wag hos

SaRita Hughes
Clerk, City-County Council

Presented by me to the Mayor this 7" day of June, 2022.

PbS |
SaRita Hughes we
Clerk, City-County Council

Approved and signed by me this KS day of June, “A ah;
oapt \ f

Joseph H. Hogsett, Mayor

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2022

=== 175-2022 proposal document, page 8 of 9 (OCR) ===
G.O. No. 25, 2022
Page 8

STATE OF INDIANA, MARION COUNTY)
) ss:
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS )

|, SaRita Hughes, Clerk of the City-County Council, Indianapolis, Marion County, indiana, do hereby certify
the above and foregoing is a full, true, and complete copy of Proposal No. 175, 2022, a Proposal for a
GENERAL ORDINANCE passed by the City-County Council on the 6" day of June, 2022, by a vote of 23
YEAS and p NAYS, and was retitled General Ordinance No. 25, 2022, which was signed by the Mayor on
the a day of June, 2022, and now remains on file and on record in my office.

WITNESS my hand and the official seal of the City of Indianapolis, Indiana, this ub day of June, 2022.

SaRita Hughes
Clerk, City-County Council

(SEAL)

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2022

=== 175-2022 proposal document, page 9 of 9 (OCR) ===
Indianapolis City - County Council RCS# 680
2020-2023
2020-2023

6/6/2022 8:01 PM

Proposal: PROP22- 175 Ordinance: G.O. 25 (PASSED)
Sponsor: Barth,Lewis,Larrison,Adamson,Boots
Action: Adopt
Committee: Rules

Yea: 23 Nay: 0 Abstain: 0 Not Voting: 0 Excused: 2
Yea - 23
Adamson Carlino Jackson Oliver
Annee Dilk Jones Os
Bain Evans-E Larrison Potts
Barth Evans-J Lewis Ray
Boots Graves McCormick Robinson
Brown Hart Mowery
Nay - 0
Abstain - 0
Excused - 2
Gray Mascari

Excused - 0
