=== 177-2025 proposal document, page 1 of 6 (OCR) ===
CITY-COUNTY SPECIAL ORDINANCE NO. 6, 2025
Proposal No. 177, 2025

A SPECIAL ORDINANCE of the City-County Council of the City of Indianapolis and of Marion County, Indiana,
authorizing the issuance of one or more series of its City of Indianapolis, Indiana, Economic Development Tax
increment Revenue Bonds, Series 2025 (Federally Taxable — Oxford Row Project) (with such further series or
other designation as determined to be necessary, desirable or appropriate), in a maximum aggregate principal
amount not to exceed Two Million Twelve Thousand Dollars ($2,012,000), for the purpose of providing funds
to pay the costs of the Project (as defined herein) and approving and authorizing other actions in respect
thereto.

WHEREAS, Indiana Code 36-7-11.9 and 12 (collectively, the “Act’) declares that the financing and
refinancing of economic development facilities constitutes a public purpose; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to the Act, the City of Indianapolis, Indiana (the “City”) is authorized to issue
revenue bonds for the purpose of financing, reimbursing or refinancing the costs of acquisition, construction,
renovation, installation and equipping of economic development facilities in order to foster diversification of
economic development and creation or retention of opportunities for gainful employment in or near the City;
and

WHEREAS, Chatham Park Development, LLC, and/or one or more subsidiaries, affiliates, designees
and/or joint ventures thereof (collectively, the “Developer’) desires to finance certain projects, additions or
improvements within the City, including all or any portion of the acquisition, construction, and equipping of
approximately 46 residential units alongside approximately at least 5,000 square feet of street level retail space
(the “Project’); and

WHEREAS, the Project be located at approximately 2460 and 2502 N. Delaware St., indianapolis,
Indiana 46205 (previously 2460, 2502, 2514, 2520 and 2524 N. Delaware St. and 164 E. 25th St, Indianapolis,
Indiana 46205) and geographically confirmed at Local Parcel # 1068784 and Local Parcel # 1033814, which are
in City-County Council District 12, and is, or will be, located in, serving or physically connected to an allocation
area, known as the Oxford Row Allocation Area (the “Allocation Area”), which is expected to be created and
established as an allocation area by the Metropolitan Development Commission of Marion County, Indiana (the
“Metropolitan Development Commission’), acting as the Redevelopment Commission of the City; and

WHEREAS, the Developer has advised the Indianap Economic Development Commission (the
“Economic Development Commission”) and the City concerning the Project, and has requested that the
City issue one or more series of its Economic Development Tax Increment Revenue Bonds, Series 2025
(Federally Taxable-Oxford Row Project) (with such further or different series designation as may be
necessary, desirable or appropriate, including such series designation to indicate the year in which the
bonds are issued) (the “Bonds”), in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed Two Million Twelve
Thousand Dollars ($2,012,000), for the purpose of providing funds for paying all or a portion of (i) the costs
of the Project by making a portion of the proceeds of the Bonds available to the Developer, (ii) capitalized
interest (if necessary); (ili) a debt service reserve (if necessary) and (iv) paying a’
incurred on account of the issuance of the Bonds; and

WHEREAS, the Economic Development Commission has rendered a report concerning the proposed
financing of the Project as an economic development facility for the Developer and the Metropolitan
Development Commission, as Plan Commission, and the Superintendent of the Indianapolis Public Schools
have been given the opportunity to comment thereon; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 24 of the Act, following a public hearing held on May 7, 2025, the
Economic Development Commission adopted a resolution finding that the financing of the Project complies
with the purposes and provisions of the Act and that such financing will be of benefit to the health and
welfare of the City; and

WHEREAS, the Economic Development Commission has determined that the financing will not have
an adverse competitive effect or impact on any similar facility or facility of the same kind already
constructed or operating in the same market area or in or about Marion County, Indiana; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to and in accordance with the Act, the City desires to provide funds necessary
to finance all or a portion of the Project by issuing the Bonds; and

SPECIAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2025

=== 177-2025 proposal document, page 2 of 6 (OCR) ===
S.O. No. 6, 2025
Page 2

WHEREAS, the Act provides that such Bonds may be secured by a trust indenture between an issuer
and a corporate trustee; and

WHEREAS, the City intends to issue the Bonds consistent with the terms of this Ordinance and
pursuant to a Trust Indenture, to be dated the first day of the month in which the Bonds are sold or
delivered (or such other date as the officers of the City may hereafter approve) (the “Indenture”), by and
between the City and a corporate trustee to be selected by the City (the “Trustee”), in order to obtain
funds necessary to provide for the financing of all or a portion of the Project, in accordance with the terms
of a Financing Agreement, to be dated the first day of the month in which the Bonds are sold or delivered
(or such other date as the officers of the City may hereafter approve) (the “Financing Agreement’), by and
between the City and the Developer with respect to the Bonds and the Project, and one more project
agreements between the City and the Developer, with respect to the Bonds and the Project, and other
such documents as deemed necessary; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to the Financing Agreement, the Developer will make certain representations,
warranties and commitments with respect to the Project and the use of the proceeds of the Bonds to be
provided to the Developer in accordance with the terms thereof and to permit the City to derive tax
increment revenues sufficient to pay principal of and interest on the Bonds and to pay administrative
expenses in connection therewith; and

WHEREAS, no member of the City-County Council has any pecuniary interest in any employment,
financing agreement or other contract made under the provisions of the Act and related to the Bonds
authorized herein, which pecuniary interest has not been fully disclosed to the City-County Council and
no such member has voted on any such matter, all in accordance with the provisions of indiana Code
36-7-12-16; and

WHEREAS, the Economic Development Commission has heretofore approved the forms of the
Bonds, the Indenture and the Financing Agreement (coliectively, the “Financing Documents”), and
approved and recommended the City-County Council’s adoption of a form of this proposed Ordinance,
which were incorporated by reference in the Economic Development Commission’s Resolution adopted
on May 7, 2025, which Resolution has been transmitted hereto; and

WHEREAS, prior to the issuance of the Bonds, the Metropolitan Development Commission will pledge
the lesser of eighty percent (80%) of the tax increment revenues received from the newly created
Allocation Area (the “TIF Revenues’) or the debt service due on the Bonds in such year and considering
any prior year shortfalls to the payment of the Bonds and other matters in furtherance of the Project; and

WHEREAS, based upon the resolution adopted by the Economic Development Commission
pertaining to the Project, the City-County Council hereby finds and determines that the financing
approved by the Economic Development Commission for all or a portion of the Project will be of benefit
to the health and general welfare of the citizens of the City, complies with the provisions of the Act and
the amount necessary to finance all or a portion of the costs of the Project, together with incidental
expenses incurred in connection therewith, will require the issuance, sale and delivery of one or more
series of economic development tax increment revenue bonds in an aggregate combined principal
amount not to exceed Two Million Twelve Thousand Dollars ($2,012,000); now, therefore

BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA:

SECTION 1. It is hereby found, determined, ratified and confirmed that the financing of the economic
development facilities referred to in the Financing Documents consisting of the Project, the issuance and
sale of the Bonds, and the loan of the net proceeds thereof to the Developer to finance all or a portion of
the Project, will: (i) result in the diversification of industry, the creation or retention of business
ies and the creation or retention of opportunities for gainful employment within the jurisdiction
of the City; (ii) serve a public purpose, and will be of benefit to the health and general welfare of the City;
) comply with the purposes and provisions of the Act and it is in the public interest that the City take
such lawful action as determined to be necessary or desirable to encourage the diversification of industry,
the creation or retention of business opportunities, and the creation or retention of opportunities for gainful
employment within the jurisdiction of the City; and (iv) not have a material adverse competitive effect on
any similar facilities already constructed or operating in or near the City.

SPECIAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2025

=== 177-2025 proposal document, page 3 of 6 (OCR) ===
8.0. No. 6, 2025
Page 3

SECTION 2. The forms of the Financing Documents presented herewith are hereby approved and all such
documents shall be kept on file by the Clerk of the City-County Council (the “Clerk”) or the Controller of
the City (the “Controller’). in compliance with Indiana Code 36-1-5-4, two (2) copies of the Financing
Documents are on file in the office of the Clerk for public inspection.

SECTION 3. The City is authorized to issue the Bonds in one or more series, which shall be taxable for
federal income tax purposes, in the maximum aggregate principal amount not to exceed Two Million
Twelve Thousand Dollars ($2,012,000), with a maximum term not to exceed twenty-five (25) years from
the date of issuance and with a maximum interest rate not to exceed eight percent (8%) per annum, for
the purpose of procuring funds to pay all or a portion of (i) the costs of the Project by making a portion of
the proceeds of the Bonds available to the Developer; (ii) capitalized interest (if necessary); (iii) a debt
service reserve (if necessary); and (iv) pay all incidental expenses incurred on account of the issuance of
the Bonds. The Bonds shall be payable as to principal and interest solely from the TIF Revenues pledge
of the lesser of eighty percent (80%) of the TIF Revenues or the debt service due on the Bonds in such
year and considering any prior year shortfalls, upon such terms and conditions as otherwise provided in
the Financing Documents and this Ordinance. The Bonds shall never constitute a general obligation of,
an indebtedness of, or charge against the general credit of the City.

SECTION 4. The Mayor and the Clerk are authorized and directed to execute the Financing Documents, and
the Mayor, the Controller, the Clerk and any other officer of the City are authorized and directed to execute
such other documents approved or authorized herein and any other document which may be necessary,
appropriate or desirable to consummate the transaction contemplated by the Financing Documents and this
Ordinance, and their execution is hereby confirmed on behalf of the City. The signatures of the Mayor and the
Clerk on the Bonds, and their execution is hereby confirmed on behaif of the City. The signatures of the Mayor
and the Clerk on the Bonds may be facsimile signatures. The Mayor, the Clerk, the Controller and any other
officer of the City are authorized to arrange for the delivery of the Bonds fo the purchaser, payment for which
will be made in the manner set forth in the Financing Documents. The Mayor and the Clerk may, by their
execution of the Financing Documents requiring their signatures and imprinting of their facsimile signatures
thereon, approve any and all such changes therein and also in those Financing Documents which do not require
the signature of the Mayor or the Clerk without further approval of this City-County Council or the Economic
Development Commission if such changes do not affect terms set forth in Sections 27(a)(1) through and
including (a)(10) of the Act.

SECTION 5. The provisions of this Ordinance and the Financing Documents shall constitute a contract binding
between the City and the holder or holders of the Bonds and after the issuance of said Bonds, this Ordinance
shall not be repealed or amended in any respect which would adversely affect the right of such holder or holders
so long as said Bonds or the interest thereon remains unpaid.

SECTION 6. The Mayor, the Controller and the Clerk, or any other officer having responsibility with respect to
the issuance of the Bonds, are authorized and directed, alone or in conjunction with any of the foregoing, or
with any other officer, employee, consultant or agent of the City, to deliver a certificate for inclusion in the
transcript of proceedings for the Bonds, setting forth the facts, estimates and circumstances and reasonable
expectations pertaining to the use of the Bond proceeds as of the date of issuance thereof.

SECTION 7. No recourse under or upon any obligation, covenant, acceptance or agreement contained in this
Ordinance, the Financing Documents or under any judgment obtained against the City, including without
limitation its Economic Development Commission, or by the enforcement of any assessment or by any legal
or equitable proceeding by virtue of any constitution or statute or otherwise, or under any circumstances, under
or independent of the Financing Agreement, shall be had against any member, director, or officer or attorney,
as such, past, present, or future, of the City, including without limitation its Economic Development
Commission, either directly or through the City, or otherwise, for the payment for or to the City or any receiver
thereof or for or to any holder of the Bonds secured thereby, or otherwise, of any sum that may remain due
and unpaid by the City upon any of the Bonds. Any and all personal liability of every nature, whether at
common law or in equity, or by statute or by constitution or otherwise, of any such member, director, or officer
or attorney, as such, to respond by reason of any act or omission on his or her part or otherwise for, directly
or indirectly, the payment for or to the City or any receiver thereof, or for or to any owner or holder of the Bonds,
or otherwise, of any sum that may remain due and unpaid upon the Bonds hereby secured or any at them,
shall be expressly waived and released as a condition of and consideration for the execution and delivery of
the Financing Agreement and the issuance, sale and delivery of the Bonds.

SPECIAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2025

=== 177-2025 proposal document, page 4 of 6 (OCR) ===
S.O. No. 6, 2025
Page 4

SECTION 8. If any section, paragraph or provision of this Ordinance shall be held to be invalid or
unenforceable for any reason, the invalidity or unenforceability of such section, paragraph or provision
shall not affect any of the remaining provisions of this Ordinance.

SECTION 9. All ordinances, resolutions and orders or parts thereof, in conflict with the provisions of this
Ordinance are, to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.

SECTION 10. It is hereby determined that all formal actions of the City-County Council relating to the adoption
of this Ordinance were taken in one or more open meetings of the City-County Council, that all deliberations of
the City-County Council and of its committees, if any, which resulted in formal action, were in meetings open to
the public, and that all such meetings were convened, held and conducted in compliance with applicable legal
requirements, including Indiana Code 5-14-1.5, as amended.

SECTION 11. The Mayor, the Controller, the Clerk and any other officer of the City are hereby authorized and
directed, in the name and on behalf of the City, to execute, attest and deliver such further instruments and
documents, and to take such further actions, in the name of the City as in their judgment shall be necessary or
advisable in order fully to consummate the transactions described herein and carry out the purposes of this
Ordinance, and any such documents heretofore executed and delivered and any such actions heretofore taken,
be, and hereby are, ratified and approved. The Mayor or his designee is hereby authorized to enter into one or
more project agreements with the Developer, on terms and conditions acceptable to the Mayor, together with
any changes as may be necessary, desirable or appropriate, which shall be evidenced by his execution thereof.

SECTION 12. This Ordinance shall be in full force and effect upon adoption and compliance with Indiana
Code 36-3-4-14.

The foregoing was passed by the City-County Council this 7" day of July, 2025, at 8:05 p.m.

ATTEST: A

Vop Os
. ° President, City-County Council

Luloroe Bthepuslol

Yulonda Winfield
Clerk, City-County Council

Presented by me to the Mayor this 8th day of July, 2025

Auber. Bippabol

Yulonda Winfield
Clerk, City-County Council

L aaKlfh aff

Joseph H. HOgsett, Mayor

Approved and signed by me this OE say of July, 2025,

SPECIAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2025

=== 177-2025 proposal document, page 5 of 6 (OCR) ===
S.O. No. 6, 2025
Page 5

STATE OF INDIANA, MARION COUNTY)
) SS:
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS )

|, Yulonda Winfield, Clerk of the City-County Council, Indianapolis, Marion County, Indiana, do hereby certify

the above and foregoing is a full, true, and complete copy of Proposal No. 177, 2025, a Proposal for a

SPECIAL ORDINANCE passed by the City-County Council on the 7th day of July, 2025, by a vote of 24

YEAS and 0 NAYS, and was retitled Special Ordinance No. 6, 2025, which was signed by the Mayor on the
% day of July, 2025, and now remains on file and on record in my office.

WITNESS my hand and the official seal of the City of Indianapolis, Indiana, this Be day of July, 2025.

Yulonda Winfield rfl
Clerk, City-County Council

(SEAL)

SPECIAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2025

=== 177-2025 proposal document, page 6 of 6 (OCR) ===
Indianapolis City - County Council RCS# 779

2020-2023
2024-2027
71712025 8:05 PM
VOTED AS PART OF
GROUP RCS #777
Proposal: PROP-25 177 Ordinance: S.O. 6 (PASSED)
Sponsor: OSIL!
Action: Adopt
Committee: Metro. and Econ. Dev.
Yea: 24 Nay: 0 Abstain: 0 Not Voting: 0 Excused: 1

Yea - 24

Allen Cahill Graves Mowery

Bain Carlino Hart Nielsen

Barth Delaney Jones Osili

Boots Dilk Lewis Perkins

Brown-A Evans Mascari Roberts

Brown-J Gibson McCormick Robinson
Nay -0
Abstain - 0
Excused - 1

Annee

Excused - 0
