=== 185-2021 proposal document, page 1 of 12 (OCR) ===
CITY-COUNTY GENERAL ORDINANCE NO. 25, 2021
Proposal No. 185, 2021

PROPOSAL FOR A GENERAL ORDINANCE amending the Revised Code to add a new chapter to Title 1H,
Public Health and Welfare, to wit: Chapter 710, Energy Benchmarking and Transparency.

WHEREAS, the Consolidated City of Indianapolis and Marion County is committed to taking steps to
mitigate and adapt our community to climate change to ensure a healthy and prosperous community for all our
residents now and in the future; and

WHREAS, in 2018, the city launched Thrive indianapolis, the first sustainability and resilience action plan
in our city’s history, which was developed through an extensive community engagement process and sets out
the goals for our city in the coming decades to address the effects of climate change, and

WHEREAS, in furtherance of the Thrive Indianapolis action plan, the City desires to establish an energy
and water benchmarking, reporting and transparency requirement for certain buildings within its jurisdiction to
incentivize the city, the county and other property owners to improve the use of energy and water in buildings
to reduce costs and to foster a cleaner and healthier environment; and

WHEREAS, improvements to energy efficiency serve to spur economic investment through reduced
operating costs, increased asset values and improved worker productivity; and

WHEREAS, energy efficient buildings will consume less power, resulting in fewer greenhouse gas
emissions and improved air quality; and

WHEREAS, reduced energy costs will create an efficient building stock and maintain affordability for
tenants and businesses; now, therefore:

BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA:

SECTION 1. Title II of the Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County, Indianapolis/Marion County,
indiana, Public Health and Welfare, is hereby amended by adding a new chapter, Chapter 710, Energy
Benchmarking and Transparency, to read as follows:

Chapter 710 - ENERGY BENCHMARKING AND TRANSPARENCY
Sec. 710-101. —- Purpose and Policy.

The purpose and intent of this chapter is to establish an energy and-water benchmarking, reporting and
transparency requirement for certain bulidings to incentivize the city, the county and other property owners to
improve the use of energy and water in buildings to reduce costs and to foster a cleaner and healthier
environment, to spur economic investments and to create an efficient and affordable building stock.

Sec. 710-102. — Definitions.
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section:
Administrator means the director of the-city’s office of sustainability, or his/her designee.

Aggregated whole-building data means energy or water data that has been summed for an entire
property, which may include a single occupant or a group of separately metered tenants.

Anonymized data means energy or water data that does not reveal.names, addresses or any other
information that would identify an individual or business.

Benchmarking (or benchmark) means to input and submit the total energy and water consumed for a
property for a calendar year and other descriptive information for such property as required by the
benchmarking tool. Total energy and water consumption shall not include separately metered uses that
are not integral to building operations, as determined by the administrator.

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2021

=== 185-2021 proposal document, page 2 of 12 (OCR) ===
G.O. No. 25, 2021
Page 2

Benchmarking submission means a subset of:
(a) information input into the benchmarking tool; and

(b) benchmarking information generated by the benchmarking tool, as determined by the
administrator.

Benchmarking tool means the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s ENERGY STAR® Portfolio
Manager, or any additional or alternative tool adopted by the administrator, used to track and assess the
energy and water use of certain properties relative to similar properties.

Building management system means a computer-based system that monitors and controls a
property's mechanical and electrical equipment, such as HVAC, lighting, power, water, fire suppression
and security systems.

City-owned property means a property owned, leased, or managed by the city, any agency thereof, or
the Marion County Building Authority, such that the city or the authority regularly pays all or part of the
annual energy and water bills for the property.

Compliance.means that the owner of a covered-property has-carried out all applicable duties outlined
in this chapter, which includes entering data into the benchmarking tool and reporting it to the
administrator.

Condominium means a property that combines separate ownership of individual units with common
ownership of other elements, such as common areas.

Covered city property means a-property that:

(a) is city-owned property over fifty thousand square feet 50,000 square feet of gross floor area,
beginning with 2022 data and thereafter, and

(b) is city-owned property over twenty-five thousand square feet 25,000 square feet of gross floor
area, beginning with 2023 data and thereafter.

Covered non-city property means a property, other than a covered city property, that:
(a) has a gross floor area of over 100,000 square feet beginning in 2023-and thereafter, and
(b) has a gross floor area of over 50,000 square feet beginning in 2024 and thereafter.

Covered property means any covered city property or covered non-city property; provided, however,
the following properties shall be excluded from the definition and are not subject to this chapter:

(a) single family, duplex, triplex and fourplex residential homes and related accessory structures, or
any other residential building with less than four (4) units; and

(b) properties classified as industrial per designated Standard Industrial Classification (SIC) codes
20 through 39;

Data Quality Checker means the function in the ENERGY STAR Portfolio Manager that runs a set of
basic data checks on properties to help identify possible data entry error and to determine whether a
building differs from typical operational patterns.

Energy means electricity, natural gas, steam, or other product sold by a utility to a customer which is
the owner or occupant of a property, or renewable electricity generation on the property, for purposes of
providing heating, cooling, lighting, water heating, or for powering or fueling other end-uses of a property,
as recorded in the benchmarking tool.

ENERGY STAR Portfolio Manager means the tool developed and maintained by the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency to track and assess the relative energy performance of buildings.
GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2021

=== 185-2021 proposal document, page 3 of 12 (OCR) ===
G.O. No. 25, 2021
Page 3

ENERGY STAR score means the 1-100 numeric rating generated by the ENERGY STAR Portfolio
Manager tool as a measurement of a building’s energy efficiency.

EPA means the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.
Financial hardship means:

(a) a covered property with property taxes and/or special assessments due and owing in arrears
resulting in the property's inclusion on the Marion County tax lien sale list within the prior two (2)
years;

(b) a covered property under the control of a court-appointed receiver,

(c} a covered property owned by a financial institution or other lender which took title to the property
due to default of a mortgage, lien, or other security interest against the property through a deed
in lieu of foreclosure or court judgment; or

(d) a covered property subject to one (1) or more mortgages or other security interests, the holder
of the most senior of which has given written notice to the owner that it is in default.

Gross floor area means the total property area, measured between the outside surface of the exterior
wails of the buiiding(s). This includes all areas inside the building(s), including but not limited to lobbies,
tenant areas, common areas, meeting rooms, break rooms, atriums (count the base level only),
restrooms, elevator shafts, stairwells, mechanical equipment areas, basements, and storage rooms.

Non-compliance means that the owner of a covered property has not carried out all applicable duties
outlined in this chapter, which includes entering-data into the benchmarking tool and reporting it to the
administrator or has not otherwise obtained an exemption from compliance pursuant to this chapter.

Owner means any of the following:

(a) one (1) or more individuals or entities in whose name title to a property is held;

(b) the board of the owners’ association, in the case of a condominium;

(c) the master association, in the case of a condominium where the powers of an owners’ association
are exercised by or delegated to a master association;

(d) the board of directors, in the case of a cooperative apartment corporation: or
(e) an agent authorized to act on behalf of any of the above.

Property means any of the following:
(a) asingle building;

(b) one (1) or more buildings held in the condominium form of ownership and governed by a single
board of managers or a master association; or

(c) a campus of two (2) or more contiguous buildings which are owned and operated by the same
party, have a single shared primary function, and are:

(1) behind a common utility meter or served by common mechanical/electrical systems (such
as, by way of illustration and not of limitation, a chilled water loop) which would prevent the
owner from being able to easily determine the energy use attributable to each of the individual
buildings; or

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2021

=== 185-2021 proposal document, page 4 of 12 (OCR) ===
G.O. No. 25, 2021
Page 4

(2) used primarily for one of the following functions:
0] K-12 school;

hospital:

hotel;
(iv) multifamily housing; or
(v) — senior care community.
Shared benchmarking information means information generated by the benchmarking tool and
descriptive information about a covered property, including its physical and operational characteristics,

shared with the public. Shared benchmarking information, as defined by the ENERGY STAR
Portfolio Manager glossary, shall include, but need not be limited to:

(a) Descriptive information, including:
(1) property address;
(2) primary use;
(3) gross floor area;

(4) number of years the property has been ENERGY STAR® Certified and the last approval
date, if applicable; and

(5) individual or entity responsible for the benchmarking submission.

(b) Output information, including:

(1) site and source energy use intensity;

(2) weather normalized site and source energy use intensity,

(3) the ENERGY STAR score, where available;

(4) total annual greenhouse gas emissions;

(5) indoor water use and water use intensity (consumption per gross square foot);

(6) total water use;

(7) the ENERGY STAR water score, where available; and
(8) general comments section, if needed, to explain the bu

ing’s ENERGY STAR scores.
(c) Whether the owner is in compliance or non-compliance.

Space means an area within a building enclosed by floor to ceiling walls, partitions, windows and
doors.

Tenant means a person or entity occupying or holding possession of a property, or a part thereof,
with the consent of the owner.

Utility means an entity that distributes and/or sells natural gas, electricity, water, or thermal energy
services for covered property.

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2021

=== 185-2021 proposal document, page 5 of 12 (OCR) ===
G.O. No. 25, 2021
Page 5

Sec. 710-103. — Applicability.

(a) This chapter is applicable to the owner of each covered property, as well as the tenants thereof,
subject to any exceptions set forth in this chapter.

(b) This chapter is applicable to each utility to the extent that each utility is highly encouraged to:

(1) develop and maintain the capability to determine aggregated whole-building data for each
covered property that it serves in an electronic format capable of being uploaded into the
benchmarking tool for at minimum the most recent 24 months; and

(2) cooperate with the owners of covered properties in providing such data and information as
is possible for purposes of benchmarking under this chapter.

Sec. 710-104, - Collecting and Entering Benchmarking Data; Recordkeeping.

(a) On or before June 1 of each calendar year the owner of each covered property shall collect-and
enter all data needed to benchmark the entire property for the previous calendar year into the benchmarking
tool in a manner that conforms to latest EPA guidance for use of the tool, based on aggregated whole-
ng data for the-covered property’s energy and water use.

(b) Aggregated whole-building data shall be complied using one or more of the following methods:

(1) Obtaining aggregated whole-building data from a utility.
(2) Collecting data from all tenants.
(3) Reading a master meter.

(c) If the owner does-not have access to aggregated whole-building data for energy and water usage,
the owner shall request aggregated whole-building data from each utility that provides energy or water
service to the property: If-a.utility does not provide aggregated whole-building data for energy or water
usage, the owner shall request energy and water data from tenants of the covered property.

(1) Each nonresidential tenant of a covered property shall, within 30 days of a request by the
owner and in a form to be determined by the administrator, provide all information that cannot
otherwise be acquired by the owner and that is needed by the owner to comply with the
requirements of this ordinance.

(2) When the owner receives notice that a nonresidential tenant intends to vacate a space within
the covered property, the owner shall request data relating to such tenant’s energy and water
use for any period of occupancy relevant to the owner’s obligation to benchmark pursuant to
this chapter. Such tenant shall report such information to the owner, in a form to be
determined by the administrator, within 30 days of a request by the owner.

(3) If a tenant fails or refuses to provide energy and water data requested by the owner, the
owner must submit documentation to the administrator of the reasons why the owner is not
able te acquire aggregated whole-building data and may apply for an exemption under
section 710-107 of this chapter.

(4) Nothing in this chapter shalt be construed to permit an owner to use tenant energy usage
data for purposes other than compliance with this chapter.

h federal
y.

(5) Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to excuse an owner from complying
or state laws governing direct access to tenant utility data from the responsible u

(d) When a covered property changes ownership, the previous owner shall provide the new owner with
all energy and water usage data and covered property descriptive information for the period during which
the previous owner was in possession of the property needed for the new owner to comply with this chapter.

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2021

=== 185-2021 proposal document, page 6 of 12 (OCR) ===
G.O. No. 25, 2021
Page 6

(e) The owner shail run all data quality checker functions available within the benchmarking tool and
shall verify that all data has been accurately entered into the tool. The owner shall correct all missing or
incorrect information as identified by the data quality checker prior to submitting a benchmarking report to
the-administrator.

(f) Owners shall maintain records as the administrator determines is necessary for carrying out the
purposes of this-ordinance, including but not limited to the energy and water bills and reports or forms
received from tenants and/or utilities. Such records shall be preserved for a period of five (5) years. At the
request of the administrator, such records shall be made available for inspection and audit by the
administrator, at no cost to the city.

Sec. 710-105. - Benchmarking Submissions.

(a) On or before June 1 of each calendar year, the owner of each covered property shall make a
benchmarking submission in an electronic format to the administrator, which shall consist of an energy and
water benchmarking report including, at minimum, shared benchmarking information generated by the
benchmarking tool based upon the data entered pursuant to section 710-104 of this chapter.

(b) If an owner learns that any information reported as part of a benchmarking submission is inaccurate
or incomplete, within 30 days of learning of the inaccuracy or incompleteness, the owner shall amend the
information reported within the benchmarking tool and shall provide the administrator with an updated
benchmarking submission.

(c) An owner may make a written request to the administrator, in such form and with such supporting
documentation as may be requested by the administrator, at least 30 days prior to the date on which a
benchmarking submission is due for an extension of time to make a benchmarking submission if, despite
good faith-efforts; the owner is unable to complete the submission on time due to the failure of either a utility
provider or a tenant (or both) to provide the owner with information needed to complete the submission.
The administrator may grant no more than two (2) extensions of no more than 30 days each to the owner
of a covered property in a calendar year.

Sec. 710-706. - Benchmarking Implementation Schedule.

(a) The benchmarking submissions required by Sec. 710-104 shall be initially filed in accordance with
the following schedule:

. Covered city Covered .
ooeertion: properties properties coroeertice.
Voluntary greater than greater than greater than greater than
benchmarking) 50,000 sq. ft | 29:00 sa. ft 25,000 sq. ft 25,000 sq. ft.

for all covered

properties | Voluntary for all Covered non-city| Covered non-city

properties greater] properties greater| Covered non-city

other covered properties greater
properties than 00,000 sq.| than 90,000 84: | than 30,000 sq. ft
Scores for covered
Scores for city properties
Scores for covered city.
N/A N/A covered city properties
properties Scores for all

covered properties
will be published in
2026

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2021

=== 185-2021 proposal document, page 7 of 12 (OCR) ===
G.O, No. 25, 2021
Page 7

(b) By December 1 of each year prior to a year in which benchmarking submissions are due, the
administrator may publicly post a list.of all covered properties that must provide a benchmarking submission
to the administrator during the following year.

(c) Between January 1 and March 1 of each year, for at least the first three (3) years during which an.
owner is required to provide a benchmarking sub ion, the administrator shall attempt to notify those
owners of their obligation to benchmark via direct mail, electronically via email, or through a public posting
on a web site.

(d) Failure of the administrator to publicly post a list of all covered properties that must provide a
benchmarking submission to the administrator during the following year or to notify any owner in
accordance with this section shall not relieve such owner of its obligation to comply with this chapter.

(e) The administrator shall provide no less than four (4) outreach and educational opportunities per
calendar year throughout the implementation schedule set forth in subsection (a) for owners of covered
properties. Such opportunities may include, by way of example:

(1) In-person and virtual data submission training and assistance;
(2) "Train the trainer” sessions led by EPA Energy Star;
(3) Mailers and annual reports;
(4) Online resources;
(5) Community office hours; and
(6) Trade association meetings.
Sec. 740-107. — Benchmarking Transparency.

(a): The administrator shall, beginning with covered city properties in accordance with the schedule set
forth in section 710-106(a) and annually thereafter, make shared benchmarking information available on a
publicly accessible website.

(b) Beginning December 1, 2025 and on or before the first business day of December of each calendar
year thereafter, the administrator shall make available on a publicly accessible website an annual report on
the benchmarking of all covered properties.

(1) The report shail include a summary of energy and water consumption statistics, an assessment
of compliance rates, accuracy and issues affecting accuracy, changes across the covered
properties portfolio over time, and trends observed.

(2) All data included in the annual benchmarking report shall be anonymized data.

(3) The administrator may include the information required in the annual benchmarking report as
a standalone report or in a combined annual energy and water efficiency report covering the
progress of all of the city’s energy efficiency ordinances and programs, at the administrator's
discretion.

({c) The administrator may provide non-anonymized data from benchmarking submissions to any utility
serving a covered property or to any federal, state, county, or city-managed energy efficiency or
management program, provided that the data will be used only for purposes of offering programs, services
and incentives related to energy and water efficiency and management, and provided that the administrator
has first obtained the written consent of the owner of a covered property to share the data with the utility or
energy efficiency and/or management program. Where the owners permission can be granted
electronically through acceptance of a default option, the city shall provide a clearly delineated option for
owners of covered properties to choose to opt out of granting such consent automatically. The administrator
may provide anonymized data to a utility without the prior consent of an owner.

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2021

=== 185-2021 proposal document, page 8 of 12 (OCR) ===
G.O. No. 25, 2021
Page 8

(d) The administrator may disclose non-anonymized data from benchmarking. submissions. to a. third
party for academic or other non-commercial research purposes.

Sec. 710-108. — Benchmarking Exemptions.

(a) The owner of a covered city property may request an exemption from making a benchmarking
submission for any given calendar year if the owner submits a written request to the administrator, in such
form and with such supporting documentation as may be requested by the administrator, at least 60 days
prior to the date on which a benchmarking submission is due for that year establishing that the covered city
property met one (1) or more of the following conditions during the calendar year for which an exemption is
being requested:

(1) A wrecking permit for the entire building was issued, demolition. work has begun, and legal
occupancy of the building was no longer possible prior to end of that year;

(2) The covered city property did not receive energy or water utility services for at least 30 days
during that year;

(3) The covered city property had an average physical occupancy rate of less than 50 percent
over the course of that year; or

(4) Due to special circumstances unique to the covered city property, strict compliance with
provisions of this chapter would not be in the public interest.

The administrator shall grant an exemption if the owner provides documentation to demonstrate the
conditions set forth in subsections (1), (2) and (3). The administrator shall have the discretion whether to
grant an exemption under subsection (4).

(b) The owner of a covered non-city property may request an exemption from making a benchmarking
submission for any given calendar year if the owner submits a written request to the administrator, in such
form and.with such supporting documentation as may be requested by the administrator, at least 60 days
prior fo the date on which a benchmarking submission is due establishing that the covered. nen-city.property
has met one (1) or more of the following conditions during the calendar year for which an-exemptiorris
being requested:

(1) Any of the conditions set forth in section 710-107(a}(1) — (3) apply to the covered non-city
property.

2) The owner of the covered non-city property is unable to obtain the data as provided for in
section 710-104(c){3);

3) The covered non-city property is under financial hardship;

4) The covered non-city property has a gross floor area more than 50% of which is used for
residential purposes, has more than four (4) energy/water meters, the owner is not able to
obtain aggregated whole-building data, and the utilities serving the property does not provide
access to aggregated whole-building data; or

5) Special conditions unique to the covered non-city property which were not caused by the
actions of the owner exist such that strict compliance with this chapter would cause the owner
undue hardship.

The administrator shall grant an exemption if the owner provides documentation to demonstrate the

conditions set forth in subsections (1), (2), (3) and (4). The administrator shall have the discretion whether
to grant an exemption under subsection (5).

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2021

=== 185-2021 proposal document, page 9 of 12 (OCR) ===
G.O. No. 25, 2021
Page 9

Sec. 710-109. — Enforcement.

(a) The failure by owner to make a benchmarking submission as required by this chapter shall
constitute a violation of the Code. An owner's first and second violations shall be subject fo an admission
of violation and payment of the designated civil penalty through the ordinance violations bureau in
accordance with sections 103-51 and 103-52 of the Code. All subsequent violations shall be subject to the
enforcement procedures provided for in section 103-3 and 103-5 of the Code.

(b) The penalties allowed under subsection (a) may not be imposed until after:

(1) The administrator has issued a written notice of violation to the owner or the owner's
designee by personal service or by first class United States Mail, postage prepaid;

(2) Passage of thirty (30) days, which must be stated in the notice, for the violation to be cured;
and

(3) Failure of the violation to be cured within the time stated in the notice.

(c) In addition to civil penalties, the administrator may seek injunctive relief to enforce the provisions
of this chapter.

(d) All penalties collected for violation of this chapter shall be deposited in the Energy and Water
Efficiency Fund created under section 710-111.

(e) This section 710-109 shall not take effect until January 1, 2026.
Sec. 710-110. — Rules.

The board of public works is empowered to adopt and enforce rules and regulations supplementing
this chapter which are reasonably necessary to make effective the provisions thereof and to supply further
details, not inconsistent therewith, in the administration and enforcement of this chapter.

Sec. 710-111. — Energy and Water Efficiency Fund.

(a) There is hereby created a special fund, to be designated as the Energy and Water Efficiency Fund,
which shall be a continuing, non-reverting fund, with all balances remaining therein at the end of the year, and
such balances shall not revert to the city or county general funds. The controller shall deposit in this fund any
fees, penalties, grants or other monies collected in relation to benchmarking under this chapter or received in
connection with energy and water efficiency efforts and programs.

(b) Funds from the Energy and Water Efficiency Fund may be appropriated to carry out the purpose and
intent of this chapter, including the operations of the administrator, the education of owners and the public about
benchmarking and energy efficiency, and to assist with the implementation of energy and water efficiency
programs.

SECTION 2. Section 103-52 of the Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County, Indianapolis/Marion

County, Indiana, Schedule of Code provisions and penalties, is hereby amended by adding the language that
is underlined, to read as follows:

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2021

=== 185-2021 proposal document, page 10 of 12 (OCR) ===
G.O. No. 25, 2021
Page 10

Sec.103-52. - Schedule of Code Provisions and Penalties.

710-109 benchmarking $100.00
submission —~ first offense

Failure to make

710-109 benchmarking $250.00
submission — second
offense |

SECTION 3. The expressed or implied repeal or amendmeni by this ordinance of any other ordinance or
part of any other ordinance does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred, or
proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this ordinance. Those rights, liabilities and proceedings
are continued, and penalties shall be imposed and enforced under the repealed or amended ordinance as
if this ordinance had not been adopted.

SECTION 4. Should any provision (section, paragraph, sentence, clause, or any other portion) of this
ordinance be declared by a court of competent jurisdicti valid for any reason, the remaining
provision or provisions shall not be affected, if and only if such remaining provisions can, without the invalid
provision or provisions, be given the effect intended by the Council adopting this ordinance. To this end,
the provisions of this ordinance are severable.

SECTION 5. This ordinance shall be in effect from and after its passage by the Council and-compliarice with
Indiana Code § 36-3-4-14.

The foregoing was passed by the City-County Council this 12" day of July, 2021, at 10:37 p.m.

ATTEST: ,

Vop Osili -
President; City-County Council

SaRita Hughes
Clerk, City-County Counc’

Presented by me to the Mayor this 14" day of July, 2021.

eae ae [
SaRita Hughes "
Clerk, City-County Council

Approved and signed by me this _/ U day of July, 2021.
g
() Spt . | oll

Joseph H. Hogsett, Mayor

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2021

=== 185-2021 proposal document, page 11 of 12 (OCR) ===
G.O. No. 25, 2021
Page 11

STATE OF INDIANA, MARION COUNTY)
-) SS:
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS )

|, SaRita Hughes, Clerk of the City-County Council, indianapolis, Marion County, Indiana, do hereby certify

the above and foregoing is a full, true, and complete copy of Proposal No. 185, 2021, a Proposal for a

GENERAL ORDINANCE passed by the City-County Council on the 12" day. of July, 2021, by a vote of 19

YEAS and NAYS and was retitled General Ordinance No. 25, 2021, which was signed by the Mayor on the
/ G day of July, 2021, and now remains on-file and on record in my office. Mh

WITNESS my hand and the official seal of the City of Indianapolis, Indiana, this (Gvisay of July, 2021.

EPA

SaRita Hughes
Clerk, City-County Council

(SEAL)

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2021

=== 185-2021 proposal document, page 12 of 12 (OCR) ===
Indianapolis City - County Council RCS# 205
2020-2023
2020-2023

7/12/2021 10:37 PM

Proposal: PROP21- 185 Ordinance: G.O. 25 (PASSED)
Sponsor: Adamson, Barth,McCormick
Action: Adopt
Committee: Public Works

Yea: 19 Nay: 6 Abstain: 0 Not Voting: 0 Excused: 0

Yea - 19
Adamson Evans-E Larrison Osili
Barth Evans-J Lewis Potts
Boots Graves Mascari Ray
Brown Jackson McCormick Robinson
Carlino Jones Oliver

Nay - 6
Annee Dilk Hart Mowery
Bain Gray

Abstain - 0

Not Voting - 0

Excused - 0
