=== 194-2021 proposal document, page 1 of 6 (OCR) ===
CITY-COUNTY SPECIAL ORDINANCE NO. 7, 2021
Proposal No. 194, 2021

A SPECIAL ORDINANCE of the City-County Council of the City of Indianapolis and of Marion County,
Indiana, authorizing the issuance of one or more series of its City of Indianapolis, Indiana Multifamily Note,
Series 2021 (Central Greens Apartments) (with such further or different series designation as may be
necessary, desirable or appropriate, including such series designation to indicate the year in which the
Governmental Note is issued) in the maximum aggregate principal amount not to exceed Fifteen Million
One Hundred Thousand Dollars ($15,100,000), and approving and authorizing other actions in respect
thereto.

WHEREAS, Indiana Code Title 36, Article 7, Chapters 11.9 and 12 (collectively, the “Act”) declares that
the financing and refinancing of economic development facilities constitutes a public purpose; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to the Act, the City of Indianapolis, Indiana (the “City”) is authorized to issue
revenue notes for the purpose of financing, reimbursing or refinancing the costs of acquisition, construction,
renovation, installation and equipping of economic development facilities in order to foster diversification of
economic development and creation or retention of opportunities for gainful employment and the provision
of affordable housing in or near the City; and

WHEREAS, a representative of MHL 1 Central Greens LP, an Indiana limited partnership (the
“Borrower’), has advised the Indianapolis Ecenomic Development Commission (the “Commission’) and the
City that it proposes that the issue, pursuant to the Act, one or more series of its taxable or tax-exempt
Multifamily Note (Central Greens Apartments) (with such further or different series designation as may be
necessary, desirable or appropriate, including such series designation to indicate the year in which the
notes are issued) (the “Governmental Note”), in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed Fifteen Million
One Hundred Thousand Dollars ($15,100,000) and lend proceeds of the Governmental Note to the
Borrower to provide funds to pay a portion of the costs of the acquisition, design, construction, improvement
and/or equipping of a multifamily housing facility to be located in the City in Council District 15 consisting
of 156 rental units, together with functionally related and subordinate facilities, including parking and
recreational facilities to be located at 3355 Kirkbride Way (the “Development”) to be owned by Borrower;
and

WHEREAS, the Commission has studied the Development and the proposed financing of the
Development and its effects on the health and general welfare of the City and its citizens and has rendered
its report{the “EDC Report’) relating thereto, which the Metropolitan Development Commission of Marion
County, Indiana, has-been given the opportunity to comment thereon; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to Indiana Code 36-7-12-24, as amended, and Section 147(f) of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”) and Treas. Reg. 1.147(f}-1, the Commission published
notice of a public hearing (the “Public Hearing”) on the proposed issuance of the Governmental Note to
finance the Development, and on June.9, 2021, the Commission held the Public Hearing for the purpose
of receiving evidence and testimony on the Development and matters related to the proposed financing
thereof and heard all persons interested in the proceedings and considered written remonstrances and
objections, if any; and

WHEREAS, following such Public Hearing, the Commission adopted a resolution (the “EDC
Resolution”) making findings that the financing of the Development complies with the purposes and
provisions of the Act and that such financing will be of benefit to the health and welfare of the City and its
citizens through the requirement that the Development provide affordable housing that serves persons and
families of low and moderate income, that the financing of the Development will not have an adverse
competitive effect or impact on any similar facility already constructed or operating in the same market area
or in or.about the City, and that the amount of tax credits to be allocated to the Development under Section
42 of the Code does not exceed the amount necessary for the financial feasibility of the Development and
its viability as a qualified housing project throughout the credit period for the Development and that the
Development satisfies the requirements for the allocation of a housing credit dollar amount under the
|HCDA’s qualified allocation plan; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to and in accordance with the Act, the City desires to provide funds necessary to
finance a portion of the Development by issuing the Governmental Note in an aggregate principal amount
not to exceed Fifteen Million One Hundred Thousand Dollars ($15,100,000); and

SPECIAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2021

=== 194-2021 proposal document, page 2 of 6 (OCR) ===
8.0. No. 7, 2021
Page 2

WHEREAS, the Act provides that such notes may be secured by and issued pursuant to the terms of
a trust indenture between the City and a corporate trustee: and

WHEREAS, the City intends to issue the Governmental Note consistent with the terms of this
Resolution and pursuant to a Funding Loan Agreement — TEL (Forward), to be dated the first day of the
month in which the Governmental Note is sold or delivered (or such other date as the officers of the City
may hereafter approve) (the “Funding Loan Agreement’), by and among the City, as Governmental Lender,
Bank of America, N.A., as Initial Funding Lender, and U.S. Bank National Association, as Fiscal Agent, in
order to obtain funds to lend to Borrower for the purpose of providing a portion of the funding for the costs
of the Development in accordance with the terms of a Project Loan Agreement — TEL (Forward) (the “Project
Loan Agreement”) by and among the City, the Fiscal Agent and the Borrower to be dated as of the first day
of the month in which the Governmental Note is sold or delivered (or such other date as the officers of the
City may hereafter approve); and

WHEREAS, the Project Loan Agreement provides for the tepayment by the Borrower of the loan of the
proceeds of the Governmental Note pursuant to which the Borrower will agree to make payments sufficient
to pay the principal and interest on the Governmental Note as the same become due and payable and to
pay administrative expenses in connection with the Governmental Note: and

WHEREAS, no member of this City-County Council (the “Council’) has any pecuniary interest in the
Funding Loan Agreement, the Project Loan Agreement or any employment or other contract made under
the provisions of the Act and related to the Governmental Note authorized herein, which pecuniary interest
has not been fully disclosed fo the Commission and no such member has voted on any such matter, all in
accordance with the provisions of Indiana Code 36-7-12-16: and

WHEREAS, there. have previously been submitted to the Commission for its approval the forms of the
Governmental Note, the Funding Loan Agreement, the Project Loan Agreement, the Regulatory Agreement
by and among the City, the Fiscal Agent and the Borrower (the “Regulatory Agreement”) and the Interlocal
Cooperation Agreement between the Indiana Housing and Community Development Authority (IHCDA’)
and the City (collectively, the "Financing Documents”), and a form of a proposed ordinance of the City (the
“Ordinance”) authorizing- the Governmental Note and forms of Financing Documents, which are by this
reference incorporated herein; and

WHEREAS, based upon the EDC Resolution, this Council hereby finds and determines that the funding
-approved by the Commission for the acquisition, construction and equipping of the Development will be of
benefit to the health and general welfare of the citizens of the City, complies with the provisions of the Act
and the amount necessary to finance a portion of the costs of the Development, will require the issuance,
sale and delivery of one or more series of revenue notes in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed
Fifteen Million One Hundred Thousand Dollars ($15, 100,000): now, therefore:

BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA:

SECTION 1. After considering the evidence presented in the EDC Report and EDC Resolution, it is hereby
found, determined, ratified and confirmed that the financing of the economic development facilities referred
to in the Financing Documents consisting of the Development, the issuance and sale of the Governmental
Note, and the loan of the net proceeds thereof to the Borrower for the purposes of financing a portion of the
Development, and repayment of said loan by Borrower w (i) promote a substantial likelihood of
diversification of industry, the creation or retention of business opportunities and the creation or retention
of opportunities for gainful employment within the jurisdiction of the City and the provision of quality
affordable, multifamily rental housing within the jurisdiction of the City; (ji) serve a public purpose, and will
be of benefit to the health and general welfare of the City; (iii) comply with the purposes and provisions of
the Act and it is in the public interest that the City take such lawful action as determined to be necessary or
desirable to encourage the diversification of industry, the creation or retention of business opportunities,
and the creation or retention of opportunities for gainful employment and the provision of quality, affordable
multifamily rental housing within the jurisdiction of the City; and (iv) not have a material adverse competitive
effect on any similar facilities already constructed or operating in or near the City.

SPECIAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2021

=== 194-2021 proposal document, page 3 of 6 (OCR) ===
S.O. No. 7, 2021
Page 3

SECTION 2. The forms of the Financing Documents presented herewith are hereby approved, with any
and all such changes as may be deemed necessary, desirable or appropriate by the Mayor and the Clerk
of the Council (the “Clerk") and all such documents shall be kept on file by the Clerk of the City or the
Controller of the City (the “Controller’). In compliance with Indiana Code 36-1-5-4, two (2) copies of the
Financing Documents are on file in the office of the Clerk for public inspection.

SECTION 3. The City is authorized to issue the Governmental Note in one or more series, any series of
which may be taxable or tax-exempt for federal income tax purposes, in the maximum aggregate principal
amount not to exceed Fifteen Million One Hundred Thousand ($15,100,000), with a maximum term not to
exceed forty (40) years from the date of the issuance of any series of the Governmental Note and with a
maximum interest rate not to exceed twelve percent (12%) per annum, for the purpose of loaning the
proceeds thereof to the Borrower to pay a portion of the costs of the Development as set forth in the
Financing Documents. The Governmental Note shall be payable as to principal and interest upon such
terms and conditions as otherwise provided in the Financing Documents and this Ordinance. The
Governmental Note may be subject to mandatory tender or optional redemption at one or more times prior
to maturity. The Governmental Note shall never constitute a general obligation of, moral obligation of, an
indebtedness of, or charge against the general credit of the City or a pledge of the full faith or credit of the
City within the purview of any constitutional or statutory limitation or provision.

SECTION 4. The Mayor and the Controller are authorized and directed to sell the Governmental Note to the
purchaser or purchasers thereof at a price not less than ninety-eight percent (98%) of the aggregate principal
amount thereof plus accrued interest, if any, at a rate of interest not to exceed twelve percent (12%) per
annum, and with a final maturity date no later than forty (40) years from the date of the issuance of any series
of the Governmental Note. A Governmental Note Purchase Agreement, in the form and substance acceptable
to the Mayor and the Clerk, is hereby authorized and approved, and the Mayor and the Clerk are hereby
authorized and directed to execute and deliver the Governmental Note Purchase Agreement in form and
substance acceptable to them and consistent with the terms and conditions set forth in this Ordinance, with
such to be conclusively evidenced by their execution thereof.

SECTION 5. The Mayor and the Clerk are authorized and directed to execute the Financing Documents,
and the Mayer, the Controller, the Clerk and any other officer of the City are authorized and directed to
execute such other documents approved or authorized herein and any other document which may be
necessary, appropriate or desirable to consummate the transaction contemplated by the Financing
Documents and this Ordinance, and their execution is hereby confirmed on behalf of the City. The
signatures.of the Mayor and the Clerk on the Governmental Note which may be necessary or desirable to
consummate the transaction, and their execution is hereby confirmed on behalf of the City. The signatures
of the Mayor and the Clerk on the Governmental Note may be facsimile signatures. The Mayor, the Clerk,
the Controller and-any other officer of the City are authorized to arrange for the delivery of the Governmental
Note fo the purchaser, payment for which will be made in the manner set forth in the Financing Documents.
The Mayor and the Clerk may, by their execution of the Financing Documents requiring their signatures
and imprinting of their facsimile signatures thereon, approve any and all such changes therein and also in
those Financing Documents which do not require the signature of the Mayor or the Clerk without further
approval of this Council or the Commission if such changes do not affect terms set forth in Sections 27(a)(1)
through (a)(10) of the Act.

SECTION 6. The provisions of this Ordinance and the Financing Documents shall constitute a contract
binding between the City and the holder or holders of the Governmental Note and after the issuance of said
Governmental Note, this Ordinance shail not be repealed or amended in any respect which would adversely
affect the right of such holder or holders so long as said Governmental Note or the interest thereon remains
unpaid.

SECTION 7. Subject to the obligations of the Borrower set forth in the respective Financing Documents
and/or the certificates or agreements of such Borrower to be executed upon the issuance of the
Governmental Note, if any of the Governmental Note are issued on a tax-exempt basis for purposes of
federal income taxation, the City will use its best efforts to restrict the use of the proceeds of the
Governmental Note in such a manner and to expectations at the time the Governmental Note are delivered
to the purchasers thereof, so that they will not constitute “arbitrage bonds” under Section 148 of the Code
and the regulations promulgated thereunder, or to preserve any other desired tax status under the Code.
The Mayor, the Controller and the Clerk, or any other officer having responsibility with respect to the

SPECIAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2021

=== 194-2021 proposal document, page 4 of 6 (OCR) ===
S.O. No. 7, 2021
Page 4

issuance of the Governmental Note, are authorized and directed, alone or in conjunction with any of the
foregoing, or with any other officer, employee, consultant or agent of the City, to deliver a certificate for
inclusion in the transcript of proceedings for the Governmental Note, setting forth the facts, estimates and
circumstances and reasonable expectations pertaining to said Section 148 of the Code and the regulations
thereunder.

SECTION 8. No recourse under or upon any obligation, covenant, acceptance or agreement contained in
this Ordinance, the Financing Documents or under any judgment obtained against the City, including.
without limitation the Commission, or by the enforcement of any assessment or by any legal-or equitable
proceeding by virtue of any constitution or statute or otherwise, or under any circumstances, under or
independent of the Financing Documents, shall be had against any member, director, or officer or attorney,
as such, past, present, or future, of the City, including without limitation the Commission, either directly or
{through the City, or otherwise, for the payment for or to the City or any receiver thereof or for or to any
holder of the Governmental Note secured thereby, or otherwise, of any sum that may remain due and
unpaid by the City upon any of the Governmental Note. Any and all personal liability of every nature,
whether at common law or in equity, or by statute or by constitution or otherwise, of any such member,
director, or officer or attorney, as such, to respond by reason of any act or omission on his or her part or
otherwise for, directly or indirectly, the payment for or to the City or any receiver thereof, or foror to any
owner or holder of the Governmental Note, or otherwise, of any sum that may remain due and unpaid upon
the Governmental Note hereby secured or any of them, shall be expressly waived and released as a
condition of and consideration for the execution and delivery of the Financing Documents and the issuance,
sale and delivery of the Governmental Note.

SECTION 9. If any section, paragraph or provision of this Ordinance shall be held to be invalid or
unenforceable for any reason, the invalidity or unenforceability of such section, paragraph or provision shall
not affect any of the remaining provisions of this Ordinance.

SECTION 10. All ordinances, resolutions and orders or parts thereof, in conflict with the provisions of this
Ordinance are, to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.

SECTION 11. It is hereby determined that all formal actions of the Council relating to the adoption of this
Ordinance were taken in one or more open meetings of the Council, that all deliberations of the Council
and of its committees, if any, which resulted in formal action, were in meetings open to the public, and that
all such meetings were convened, held and conducted in compliance with applicable legal requirements,
including Indiana Code 5-14-1.5, as amended.

SECTION 12. The Mayor, the Controller, the Clerk and any other officer of the City are hereby authorized and
directed, in the name and on behalf of the City, to execute, attest and deliver such further instruments and
documents, and to take such further actions, in the name of the City as in their judgment shall be necessary
or advisable in order to fully consummate the transactions described herein and carry out the purposes of
this Ordinance, and any such documents heretofore executed and delivered and any such actions
heretofore taken, be, and hereby are, ratified and approved.

SECTION 13. This Council hereby finds and determines that the amount of tax credits to be allocated to
the Development under Section 42 of the Code, does not exceed the amount necessary for the financial
feasibility of the Development and its viability as a qualified housing project throughout the credit period for
the Development. In making the foregoing determination, this Council has relied upon representations of
the Borrower. The foregoing determination shail not be construed to be a representation or warranty by this
Council or the City as to the feasibility or viability of the Development. In reliance upon the representations
of the Borrower, it is hereby found and determined that the Development satisfies the requirements for the
allocation of a housing credit dollar amount under the IHCDA’s qualified allocation plan.

SECTION 14. This Ordinance shalt be in full force and effect upon adoption and compliance with Indiana
Code 36-3-4-14.

SPECIAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2021

=== 194-2021 proposal document, page 5 of 6 (OCR) ===
S.0. No. 7, 2021
Page 5

The foregoing was passed by the City-County Council this 12 day of July, 2021, at 10:00 p.m.

ATTEST:

SP uh Tchag

SaRita Hughes
Clerk, City-County Council

Vop Osili
Presidefit, City-County Council

Presented by me to the Mayor this 14!" day of July, 2021. ;
St ‘hae '
SaRita. Hughes a
Clerk, City-County Council

Approved and signed by me this __/ [ptt day of July, mh xh
opt . Py off é

Joseph H. Hogsett, Mayor

STATE OF INDIANA, MARION COUNTY)
) ss:
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS )

|, SaRita Hughes, Clerk of the City-County Council, Indianapolis, Marion County, Indiana, do hereby certify
the above and foregoing is a full, true, and complete copy of Proposal No. 194, 2021, a Proposal for a
SPECIAL ORDINANCE passed by the City-County Council on the 12 day of July, 2021, by a vote of 25
YEAS and, NAYS and was retitled Special Ordinance No. 7, 2021, which was signed.by the Mayor on the
74_day of July, 2021, and now remains on file and on record in my office.

WITNESS my hand and the official seal of the City of Indianapolis, Indiana, this Obey of July, 2021.
as” 7 var’ ff } -
PAA Dough

SaRita Hughes
Clerk, City-County Council

(SEAL)

SPECIAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2021

=== 194-2021 proposal document, page 6 of 6 (OCR) ===
Indianapolis City - County Council RCS# 202
2020-2023
2020-2023

7/12/2021 10:00 PM

Proposal: PROP21- 194 Ordinance: S.O. 7 (PASSED)
Sponsor: Osili
Action: Adopt
Committee: Metro. and Econ. Dev.

Yea: 25 Nay: 0 Absiain: 0 Not Voting: 0 Excused: 0

Yea - 25
Adamson Dilk Jackson Mowery
Annee Evans-E Jones Oliver
Bain Evans-J Larrison
Barth Graves Lewis Potts
Boots Gray Mascari Ray
Brown Hart McCormick Robinson
Carlino

Nay - 0

Abstain - 0

Not Voting - 0

Excused - 0
