=== 201-2023 proposal document, page 1 of 3 (OCR) ===
CITY-COUNTY SPECIAL ORDINANCE NO. 74, 2023
Proposal No. 201, 2023

PROPOSAL FOR A SPECIAL ORDINANCE approving an interlocal cooperation agreement between the
Consolidated City of Indianapolis and Marion County, Indiana (‘Indianapolis’) and the City of Greenwood,
Indiana (“Greenwood”) for the construction and operation of improvements to County Line Road.

WHEREAS, I.C. § 8-17-1-45 provides that each county is responsible for the construction,
reconstruction, maintenance, and operation of the roads, including the ditches and signs for those roads,
making up its southern and eastern boundaries; and

WHEREAS, I.C. 36-1-3-9(a)} provides that municipalities have exclusive jurisdiction over the bridges,
streets, alleys, sidewalks, watercourses, sewers, drains, and public grounds inside its corporate
boundaries; and

WHEREAS, County Line Road is the boundary road between Marion County and Johnson County, and
it is the southern boundary of Marion County; therefore, Indianapolis is responsible for the construction,
reconstruction, operation, and maintenance of County Line Road; and

WHEREAS, recent and planned development in the geographic area of the intersection of East County
Line Road and Arlington Avenue (known as Graham Road in Greenwood) has lessened the present level
of service of the intersection of those roads; and

WHEREAS, indianapolis has determined that improvements to the intersection will be of public utility
and benefit and, therefore, the Indianapolis Department of Public Works (‘DPW’) is preparing plans and
specifications for a capital improvement project to improve the intersection of East County Line Road and
Arlington Avenue (the “Project”); and

WHEREAS, the Project will require Indianapolis to acquire right-of-way, to perform construction activities,
and to operate and maintain the improvements within the borders of Greenwood; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to I.C. § 36-14-5, municipalities have the corporate power to acquire and own
interests in real property and, pursuant to 1.C. § 36-1-4-6, to use and improve interests in real property; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to 1.C. §§ 36-1-4-18 and 36-1-3-9(c), a municipality may exercise its corporate
powers outside its boundaries and inside the boundaries of another municipality if the two municipalities enter
into an interlocal cooperation agreement approved by their respective fiscal bodies pursuant to |.C. § 36-1-7-
2; and

WHEREAS, accordingly, Greenwood and Indianapolis desire to enter into an interlocal cooperation
agreement to allow Indianapolis to carry out the Project by acquiring right-of-way, performing construction
activities, and operating and maintaining the improvements within the borders of Greenwood; and

WHEREAS, the City-County Council, having considered the matter and being duly advised, finds that the
intersection or East County Line Road and Arlington Avenue serves and affects the citizens of and the
economic well-being of both Indianapolis and Greenwood, that the Project will improve safety and mobility and
will accommodate future economic growth in the region, and that it will be of public u and benefit to enter
into an interlocal cooperation agreement with Greenwood to carry out the Project; now, therefore:

BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA:

SECTION 1. The City-County Council hereby approves an authorizes the Department of Public Works to enter
into an interlocal cooperation agreement with the City of Greenwood for purposes of authorizing the
Consolidated City of Indianapolis and Marion County to acquire right-of-way, to conduct construction ac
and to operate and maintain as necessary for the completion and continuation of improvements to the
intersection of East County Line Road and Arlington Avenue.

SECTION 2. The Director of the Department of Public Works is hereby authorized to finalize, execute, and
deliver an appropriate interlocal cooperation agreement on behalf of the Consolidated City of Indianapolis and
Marion County upon approval of the form and substance of such agreement by the Corporation Counsel or
their designee.

SPECIAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2023

=== 201-2023 proposal document, page 2 of 3 (OCR) ===
S.0. No. 14, 2023
Page 2

SECTION 3. This Special Ordinance shail be in full force and effect upon its passage by the City-County Council
and compliance with IC 36-3-4-14.

The foregoing was passed by the City-County Council this 14% day of August, 2023, at 8:22 p.m.

ATTEST:

Vop Osili
Presidgnt;City-County Council

Yulonda Winfield
Clerk, City-County Council

Presented by me to the Mayor this 15 day of August, 2023

Yulonda Winfield
Clerk, City-County Council

Approved and signed by me this WG day of August, 2023.

as pth: of
Jo . Hogseft, Mayor

|, Yulonda Winfield, Cierk of the City-County Council, Indianapolis, Marion County, Indiana, do hereby certify

the above and foregoing is a full, true, and complete copy of Proposal No. 201, 2023, a Proposal for a

SPECIAL ORDINANCE passed by the City-County Council on the 14!" day of August, 2023, by a vote of 24

YEAS ang,0 NAYS, and was retitled Special Ordinance No. 14, 2023, which was signed by the Mayor on the
/ 6 day of August, 2023, and now remains on file and on record in my office.

STATE OF INDIANA, MARION COUNTY)
) SS:
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS )

WITNESS my hand and the official seal of the City of Indianapolis, Indiana, this [SBday of August, 2023.

Yulonda Winfield
Clerk, City-County Council

(SEAL)

SPECIAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2023

=== 201-2023 proposal document, page 3 of 3 (OCR) ===
Indianapolis City - County Council RCS# 1304

2020-2023
2020-2023
8/14/2023 8:22 PM
Proposal: PROP23- 201 Ordinance: S.O. 14 (PASSED)
Sponsor: MOWERY
Action: Adopt
Committee: Public Works
Yea: 24 Nay: 0 Abstain: 0 Not Voting: 1 Excused: 0
Yea - 24
Adamson Dilk Jackson
Annee Evans-E Jones
Bain Evans-J Larrison
Barth Graves Lewis
Brown Gray Mascari
Carlino Hart McCormick Robinson
Nay - 0
Abstain - 0
Not Voting - 0
Not Voting - 1

Boots
