=== 204-2023 proposal document, page 1 of 2 (OCR) ===
CITY-COUNTY SPECIAL RESOLUTION NO. 38, 2023
Proposal No. 204, 2023

A SPECIAL RESOLUTION recognizing the inaugural Indiana Roundtable on Mental Health Summit, hosted
by Lieutenant Governor Suzanne Crouch.

WHEREAS, one in five Hoosiers suffer from mental illness and addiction; and many in need of
assistance do not realize they need help or are reluctant to seek it, while others do not know where to turn
for help or have obstacles or barriers to receiving the help and resources they so desperately need; and

WHEREAS, the Indiana Behavioral Health Commission, established in 2020, held a series of meetings
over a two-year period which resulted in policy and funding recommendations to the indiana General
Assembly to better address the mental health crisis in Indiana; and

WHEREAS, in 2021, as a part of these efforts, Lt. Governor Crouch, who throughout her many years
of public service has been committed to programs and services for people with disabilities, led the charge
in instituting the Indiana Mental Health Roundtable (IMHR), committed to partnering with institutions and
organizations, both public and private, to: 1) reduce the stigma surrounding mental health, 2) strengthen
the mental health delivery system, and 3) improve access and affordability to resources; and

WHEREAS, in January of this year, Lt. Governor Crouch testified before the Indiana Senate
Appropriations Committee to advocate for Senate Bill 1, which allocated more funding toward mental health
services across the State, stating that “the untreated cost of mental illness in Indiana is over $4 ion, So
we cannot afford NOT to pass Senate Bill 1;” and

WHEREAS, the first historical Indiana Roundtable on Mental Health Summit was held on May 16, 2023,
at the Hyatt Regency in downtown Indianapolis, and brought together over 500 attendees representing
more than 200 unique organizations and agencies from across the state of Indiana to work together to find
solutions and address the mental health and substance use crisis faced by Hoosiers, centering around
faith, youth, and workforce; and

WHEREAS, multiple Indiana Mental Health Roundtable members, including IMHR co-chair Lt
Governor Suzanne Crouch, Chief Justice Loretta Rush, Jay Chaudhary (IN Division of Mental Health and
Addiction), Steve Simon (Simon Equity Partners), Dr. Allison Barber (Indiana Fever), Kalen Jackson
(Indianapolis Colts), and Dr. Jerome Adams (former US Surgeon General), participated in large-group
sessions with guest speakers Dr. Monty Burks (TN Department of Mental Health and Substance Abuse
Services), Donna Jackson Nakazawa (Award-Winning Science Journalist, Author, and Speaker), Scott
McCorkle (MetaCX), and professional Hoosier athletes to offer insight into current mental health issues and
discuss potential solutions; and

WHEREAS, Summit breakout sessions featured a variety of experts and perspectives from faith
communities, the behavioral healthcare workforce, and youth professionals sharing knowledge about best
practices and innovative ideas for meeting the needs of Hoosier individuals and families across their
lifespan through multiple service areas, including schools, churches, medical institutions, community
organizations, etc.; and

WHEREAS, Governor Eric Holcomb held a ceremonial signing of the 2023 indiana General Assembly’s
Senate Bill 1, authored by Senator Michael Crider, and House Bill 1006, authored by Representative
Gregory Steuerwaild, to honor the historic prioritization and promotion of mental health solutions in the
Indiana legislature. During the signing, additional key stakeholders from organizations such as Mental
Health America of Indiana and the Indiana Council of Community Mental Health Centers, state agencies
such as the Division of Mental Health and Addiction, and IMHR members joined Governor Holcomb on
stage to demonstrate their support for these enacted documents; now, therefore:

BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA:

SECTION 1. The Indianapolis City-County Council proudly recognizes the inaugural Indiana Roundtable
on Mental Health Summit held on May 16, 2023 at the Hyatt Regency in downtown Indianapolis.

SECTION 2. The Council thanks all individuals, agencies, and organizations who participated in this
momentous summit, as well as those who seek to find solutions on a daily basis, and encourages all citizens

SPECIAL RESOLUTION RECORD 2023

=== 204-2023 proposal document, page 2 of 2 (OCR) ===
S.R. No 38, 2023
Page 2

of Indianapolis and the State of Indiana to support continued initiatives to address the critical mental health
crisis in our city and state.

SECTION 3. Furthermore, as a participating moderator and member of the planning committee for the
Summit, Councillor La Keisha Jackson proudly recognizes the work and efforts of the IRMH and others
involved to make this historic event a success.

SECTION 4. The Mayor is invited to join in this resolution by affixing his signature hereto.

SECTION 5 This resolution shall be in full force and effect upon adoption and compliance with IC 36-3-4-
14.

The foregoing was passed by the City-County Council this 4" day of December, 2023, at 7:21 p.m.

ATTEST:

Vop Osili

Presid ity-County Council

Yulonda Winfield
Clerk, City-County Council

Presented by me to the Mayor this 6th day of December, 2023

a ig

Yulonda Winfield
Clerk, City-County Council

ogsett, Mayor

ot

Approved and signed by me this day of December, 2023.

0
H.H

Jo:

STATE OF INDIANA, MARION COUNTY)
) SS:
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS )

I, Yulonda Winfield, Clerk of the City-County Council, Indianapolis, Marion County, Indiana, do hereby certify
the above and foregoing is a full, true, and complete copy of Proposal No. 204, 2023, a Proposal for a
SPECIAL RESOLUTION passed by the City-County Council on the 4 day of December, 2023, by a
unanimous vgice vote, and was retitled Special Resolution No. 38, 2023, which was signed by the Mayor on
the @ Ye say of December, 2023, and now remains on file and on record in my office.

WITNESS my hand and the official seal of the City of Indianapolis, Indiana, this es day of December,
2023.

Yulonda Winfield
Clerk, City-County Council

(SEAL)

SPECIAL RESOLUTION RECORD 2023
