=== 206-2024 proposal document, page 1 of 4 (OCR) ===
CITY-COUNTY SPECIAL ORDINANCE NO. 6, 2024
Proposal No. 206, 2024

A SPECIAL ORDINANCE supplementing and amending Special Ordinance No. 9, 2024, relating to the
approval of the execution of a lease with the Indianapolis-Marion County Building Authority for a new animai
care shelter facility.

WHEREAS, the Indianapolis-Marion County Building Authority (the "Building Authority") has been
created pursuant to Indiana Code 36-9-13, as amended, an independent municipal corporation for the
purpose of, among other things, financing government buildings and systems for lease to “eligible entities"
(as such term is defined in Indiana Code 36-9-13-1, as amended) within Marion County, Indiana; and

WHEREAS, the Consolidated City of Indianapolis, Indiana, as such term is defined in indiana Code 36-
3-1-4 (the “City") and Marion County, Indiana, as established in Indiana Code 36-2-1-1 (the "County”), are
eligible entities pursuant to Indiana Code 36-9-13-1, as amended; and

WHEREAS, on September 13, 2021, the City-County Council of the City of Indianapolis and of Marion
County, Indiana (the "City-County Council") adopted its Special Ordinance No. 9, 2021 (the "Original
Ordinance"), pursuant to which, among other things, the City-County Council approved and authorized the
execution of a Lease (the "Lease") between the City and/or the County, as lessee, and the Building
Authority, as lessor, for the purpose of financing the acquisition, construction, installation and equipping of
a proposed new animal care shelter, dog park and livestock area and any costs for projects related or
ancillary thereto (the "Project"); and

WHEREAS, the notice of public hearing on the Lease and the notice of approval of the Lease published
in connection with the initial approval of the Lease by the City-County Council provided that the Project was
to be generaily located at the intersection of East Michigan Street and North Sherman Drive in Indianapolis;
and

WHEREAS, the City has now determined that the Project should instead be generally located at the
Southwest corner of Raymond Street and Emerson Avenue, and therefore the City-County Council desires
to re-approve the Lease to reflect the change in the proposed location of the Project; and

WHEREAS, a notice of public hearing relating to a change in the proposed location of the Project being
leased pursuant to the Lease was given by publication in the Indianapolis Star and the Indianapolis
Business Journal, and said hearing has been held in accordance with said notice; and

WHEREAS, the City-County Council has concluded, following the public hearing described above, that
the Project is necessary and desirable and will be of general benefit to the residents of the City and the
County; and

WHEREAS, the Project and the entering into the Lease with the Building Authority for purposes of
financing the Project, together with expenses incurred in connection therewith, including capitalized
interest, if necessary, the funding of a debt service reserve, if necessary, and the costs of the issuance of
bonds therefor, are necessary and will be of general benefit to the City and the County and their taxpayers;
and

WHEREAS, except as provided in this Ordinance, the findings, provisions and terms set forth in the
Original Ordinance shall remain in full force and effect; now, therefore:

BE IT ORDAINED, BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA:

SECTION 1. A need exists for the Project and the funds needed therefor exceed the funds presently
available to the City and the County.

SECTION 2. The City-County Council hereby makes and confirms the findings described in the preambles
to this Ordinance and re-confirms the findings made in the Original Ordinance.

SECTION 3. The Lease with the Building Authority, as lessor, as amended to reflect a change in the
proposed location of the Project to the Southwest corner of Raymond Street and Emerson Avenue, provides

SPECIAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2024

=== 206-2024 proposal document, page 2 of 4 (OCR) ===
S.O. No. 6, 2024
Page 2

for a fair and reasonable basis for determining the lease rentals thereunder, and, further, the execution of
the Lease is necessary and in the best interests of the City and/or the County.

SECTION 4. As soon as can be done after the passage of this Ordinance, the Lease (in the form approved
as part of the Original Ordinance, provided that the location of the Project shall be updated as set forth in
Section 3 hereof) shall be executed by the Mayor, as executive of the City and/or the County (the "Mayor"),
and attested by the Clerk of the City-County Council (the "Clerk") and/or the Auditor of the County (the
“Auditor"), and a notice of the approval of the Lease under Indiana Code 36-9-13-28 shall be published
according to law.

SECTION 5. The preliminary drawings, plans, specifications and cost estimates for the Projects shall be
submitted to the City and the County and approved by the Mayor prior to the execution of the Lease, and
such plans and specifications shall be submitted to the various governmental agencies as required by law
upon their final approval by the Mayor.

SECTION 6. The City-County Council agrees not to rescind this Ordinance for so long as any of the Bonds
are outstanding. The City-County Council further agrees not to amend this Ordinance in any manner that
will affect or impair any of the rights of the holders of any outstanding Bonds.

SECTION 7. This Ordinance shall be deemed to supplement and amend the Original Ordinance to reflect
a change in the location of the Project as set forth herein. Except for the supplements and amendments to
the Original Ordinance set forth herein, the Original Ordinance shall remain in full force and effect.

SECTION 8, This Ordinance shall be in full force and effect after its adoption by the City-County Council
and compliance with Indiana Code 36-3-4-14, Indiana Code 36-3-4-15 and Indiana Code 36-3-4-16.

The foregoing was passed by the City-County Council this 12" day of August, 2024, at 8:42 p.m.

ATTEST: A

Vop Osili

. President, City-County Council
Adora. Stefislo-

Yulonda Winfield
Clerk, City-County Council

Presented by me to the Mayor this 13" day of August, 2024

Lula. BAyifpbol

Yulonda Winfield
Clerk, City-County Council

H. Hogsett,

Mayor

Approved and signed by me this 4H day of August, 2024.

SPECIAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2024

=== 206-2024 proposal document, page 3 of 4 (OCR) ===
S.O. No. 6, 2024
Page 3

STATE OF INDIANA, MARION COUNTY)
) Ss:
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS )

I, Yulonda Winfield, Clerk of the City-County Council, Indianapolis, Marion County, Indiana, do hereby certify

the above and foregoing is a full, true, and complete copy of Proposal No. 206, 2024, a Proposal for a

SPECIAL ORDINANCE passed by the City-County Council on the 12" day of August, 2024, by a vote of 25

YEAS and 0 NAYS, and was retitled Special Ordinance No. 6, 2024, which was signed by the Mayor on the
pin?) day of August, 2024, and now remains on file and on record in my office.

WITNESS my hand and the official seal of the City of indianapolis, Indiana, this | Asay of August, 2024.

Yulonda Winfield haf)
Clerk, City-County Council

(SEAL)

SPECIAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2024

=== 206-2024 proposal document, page 4 of 4 (OCR) ===
Indianapolis City - County Council RCS# 291

2020-2023
2024-2027
8/12/2024 8:42 PM
Proposal: PROP-24 206 Ordinance: S.O. 6 (PASSED)
Sponsor: MASCARI
Action: Adopt
Committee: Admin and Fin
Yea: 25 Nay: 0 Abstain: 0 Not Voting: 0 Excused: 0
Yea - 25
Allen Cahill Graves Mowery
Annee Carlino Hart Nieisen
Bain Delaney Jones Osili
Barth Dilk Lewis Perkins
Boots Evans Mascari Roberts
Brown-A Gibson McCormick Robinson
Brown-J
Nay -0
Abstain - 0
Not Voting - 0

Excused - 0
