=== 208-2026 proposal document, page 1 of 4 (OCR) ===
CITY-COUNTY GENERAL RESOLUTION NO. 14, 2026
Proposal No. 208, 2026

A PROPOSAL FOR A GENERAL RESOLUTION electing to allow certain employees to participate in the
Public Employees’ Retirement Fund as administered by the Indiana Public Retirement System.

WHEREAS, the City-County Council of the City of Indianapolis and of Marion County, Indiana (“City-
County Council’) is the governing body of the Consolidated City of Indianapolis and Marion County, a
political subdivision or miscellaneous participating entity in the STATE OF INDIANA; and

WHEREAS, the City-County Council adopted a resolution effective January 1, 2017 (GR No. 12, 2016)
to set forth its election to join the Public Employees’ Retirement Plan as administered by the Indiana Public
Retirement System; and

WHEREAS, the City-County Council adopted a resolution effective January 1, 2022 (GR No. 12, 2021)
to modify the options for new employees to be effective January 1, 2022, to supersede and replace its GR
No. 12, 2016; and

WHEREAS, for the purposes of this document and interpretation of statutes governing the Public
Employees’ Retirement Fund (“PERF”), “Plan” refers to the public employees’ defined contribution plan
under IC 5-10.3-12 ("PERF My Choice: Retirement Savings Plan’). “Fund” refers to the PERF Hybrid
defined benefit pension fund (“PERF Hybrid”); and

WHEREAS, political subdivisions may participate in PERF My Choice: Retirement Savings Plan and
choose whether employees are required to become members of the Plan, the Fund or may choose
membership in either the Plan or the Fund; and

WHEREAS, the City-County Council is adopting this general resolution to aliow certain employees who
are fully vested members of the Plan to make an election to participate in the Fund as permitted by IC 5-
10.3-12-33; and

WHEREAS, the governing body is fully cognizant that, if it is resolved that the governing body will allow
employees who were members of the Plan to participate in the Fund, the percentage of cost of gross annual
payroll of covered employees has been set at 11.2% by the actuary of the Fund, and that the Board of
Trustees of the Indiana Public Retirement System directs the actuary to annually review the status of the
employees covered and shall adjust the cost percentage accordingly so that the Fund will remain on an
actuarially sound basis; and

WHEREAS, the governing body is fully cognizant that, if it is resolved that the governing body will offer
employees a choice between Fund and Plan membership and to allow certain employees who are fully
vested members of the Plan to elect to participate in the Fund, the governing body shall submit the
completed “Resolution Electing to Enlarge Coverage in the Public Employees’ Retirement Fund (PERF) My
Choice Plan as Administered by INPRS” (INPRS Resolution) required by the indiana Public Retirement
System (INPRS) as contained in Exhibit A to this Generai Resolution; and

WHEREAS, if such governing body participates in the Fund, such governing body acknowledges its
liability and that, pursuant to law, it and its successors in office, must appropriate sufficient funds each year
to retire the employees’ prior service liability in an orderly manner and also fund the current cost accruing
annually; and

WHEREAS, if such governing body participates in Plan, such governing body acknowiedges Its liability
and that, pursuant to law, it and its successors in office, must appropriate sufficient funds each year to meet
all contribution obligations required by law; and

WHEREAS, such governing body acknowledges and agrees to make a supplemental contribution to
the Fund in an amount necessary to pay the employer's share of the Fund’s actuarial unfunded liability that
other employers would otherwise be required to pay because the employer's employees are becoming
members of the Plan instead of the Fund; and

WHEREAS, such governing body acknowledges and agrees, when an employee separates from
service before the member is fully vested in the employer contribution subaccount, the amount in the
employer contribution subaccount is forfeited as of the date the member separates from service and that

GENERAL RESOLUTION RECORD 2026

=== 208-2026 proposal document, page 2 of 4 (OCR) ===
GR. No. 14, 2026
Page 2

such forfeited amounts shall be used to reduce the unfunded accrued liability of the Fund as determined
under IC 5-10.2-2-11(a)(3) and IC 5-10.2-2-1 1(a)(4); and

WHEREAS, the General Assembly of the State of Indiana has authorized covered employers to pick
up all or part of members’ mandatory contributions; now, therefore:

BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA:

SECTION 1. The Consolidated City of Indianapolis and Marion County continues its election to be a
participating political sub: ion or miscellaneous participating entity in the Public Employees’ Retirement
Fund by adopting the attached INPRS Resolution, Exhibit A, including classes of employees as stated in
the attached INPRS Resolution under Chapter 340 of the Acts of 1945, and all Acts amendatory thereof and
supplemental thereto.

SECTION 2. The active participation membership of the Consolidated City of Indianapolis and Marion
County shall begin August 15, 2026.

SECTION 3. The City-County Council hereby authorizes the City Controller to execute any and all additional
and necessary documents requested or required by INPRS to effectuate the intent of this General
Resolution. Executed copies of these subsequent documents shall be submitted to the Council to complete
its permanent record of this matter.

SECTION 4. This General Resolution shall be in full force and effect from date of passage and upon
approval of the Board of Trustees of the Indiana Public Retirement System, except that active participating
membership shall begin on the date set forth in Section 2 of this General Resolution and Section 9 of the
INPRS Resolution.

SECTION 5. Should any provision (section, paragraph, sentence, clause, or any other portion) of this
ordinance be declared by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, the remaining
provision or provisions shall not be affected. If and only if such remaining provisions can, without the invalid
provision or provisions, be given the effect intended by the Council in adopting this ordinance. To this end
the provisions of this ordinance are severable.

SECTION 6. This General Resolution shall be in effect from and after its passage by the Council and
compliance with Ind. Code § 36-3-4-14.

The foregoing was passed by the City-County Council this 10th day of August, 2026, at 8:29 p.m.

ATTEST:

President, City-County Council

LYulorab. Bhepilol-

Yulonda Winfield
Clerk, City-County Council

Presented by me to the Mayor this 11th day of August, 2026

Lulorab. 2Ahepilol

Yulonda Winfield
Clerk, City-County Council

GENERAL RESOLUTION RECORD 2026

=== 208-2026 proposal document, page 3 of 4 (OCR) ===
G.R. No. 14, 2026
Page 3

A [Hla cll

o
Ss H. HogSett, Mayor

Approved and signed by me this 14: day of August, 2026.

STATE OF INDIANA, MARION COUNTY)
) $s:
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS )

|, Yulonda Winfield, Clerk of the City-County Council, Indianapolis, Marion County, Indiana, do hereby certify
the above and foregoing is a full, true, and complete copy of Proposal No. 208, 2026, a Proposal for a
GENERAL RESOLUTION passed by the City-County Council on the 10th day of August, 2026, by a vote of
24 YEAS an AYS, and was retitied General Resolution No. 14, 2026, which was signed by the Mayor
on the 1 day of August, 2026, and now remains on file and on record in my office.

WITNESS my hand and the official seal of the City of Indianapolis, Indiana, this ] 4 ae day of August
2026.

Yulonda Winfieid
Clerk, City-County Council

(SEAL)

GENERAL RESOLUTION RECORD 2026

=== 208-2026 proposal document, page 4 of 4 (OCR) ===
Indianapolis City - County Council RCS# 1264

2020-2023
2024-2027
8/10/2026 8:29 PM
Proposal: PROP-26 208 Ordinance: G.R. 14 (PASSED)
Sponsor: NIELSEN
Action: Adopt
Committee: Admin and Fin
Yea: 24 Nay: 0 Abstain: 0 Not Voting: 0 Excused: 0
Yea - 24
Allen Cahill Hart Nielsen
Annee Delaney Jones Osili
Barth Dilk Lewis Perkins
Boots Evans Mascari Roberts
Brown-A Gibson McCormick Robinson
Brown-J Graves Mowery Wells
Nay - 0
Abstain - 0
Not Voting - 0

Excused - 0
