=== 224-2024 proposal document, page 1 of 4 (OCR) ===
CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL RESOLUTION NO. 57, 2024
Proposal No. 224, 2024

PROPOSAL FOR A COUNCIL RESOLUTION (1) establishing the commitment of the Consolidated City of
Indianapolis and Marion County to eliminating traffic injuries and fatalities, and (2) establishing a Vision
Zero Task Force, and (3) developing, adopting and implementing a Vision Zero Action Plan.

WHEREAS, the council recognizes that the life, health, and safety of all people g and traveling
within the Consolidated City of Indianapolis — Marion County (City) are our utmost priority, and no one
should die or be seriously injured while traversing our City streets; and

WHEREAS, the City’s transportation infrastructure serves an increasing number of vulnerable road
users such as pedestrians, bicyclists, first responders, and construction workers;

WHEREAS, children, older adults, people of color, people with disabilities, people who are unhoused,
and people with low income face a significantly disproportionate risk of traffic injuries and fatalities; and

WHEREAS, elected and appointed leadership of the City is committed to eliminating all fatal and
serious injury crashes on city streets and roads by 2035; and

WHEREAS, Vision Zero is the concept that traffic deaths and serious Injuries on our roadways are
unacceptable; and

WHEREAS, Vision Zero is a holistic strategy aimed at eliminating all traffic fatalities and severe injuries
suffered by ail road users while increasing safe, healthy, equitable mobility for all; and

WHEREAS, streets and transportation systems have traditionally been designed primarily to move
cars efficiently, and Vision Zero supports a paradigm shift by recommending street designs and
transportation systems that move all people safely, including people of all ages and abilities, pedestrians,
bicyclists, public transit users, scooter riders, and motorcyclists, as well as drivers and passengers of motor
vehicles; and

WHEREAS, Vision Zero recognizes that people will sometimes make mistakes, so the road system
and related policies should be designed to ensure that those inevitable mistakes do not result in severe
injuries or fatalities; therefore, transportation planners and engineers and policymakers are expected to
improve the roadway environment, policies, and other related systems to lessen the severity of crashes;
and

WHEREAS, successful Vision Zero programs are a result of both a complete government approach
(.e., interdepartmental, coordinated initiatives) and community support of Vision Zero objectives and action
plans; and

WHEREAS, many cities around the United States and the world have adopted Vision Zero as an
approach to mitigating roadway deaths and severe injuries and have documented subsequent reductions;
and

WHEREAS, Vision Zero will expand the efforts of the City’s Fatal Crash Review team, which is charged
with reviewing vehicle crashes occurring within the Consolidated City that result in serious injury or death
and making a written report to the mayor, the chief of police and the director of public works recommending
roadway design changes, improved traffic controls, or other improvements or mitigation measures that the
team determines are advisable and feasible to implement in order to improve the safety of all users of that
street or highway; and

WHEREAS, Vision Zero will complement the City’s adopted Complete Streets Policy, which directs the
development of a safe, reliable, efficient, integrated and connected multimodal transportation system that
will promote access, mobility and health for ail users, and will ensure that the safety and convenience of
all users of the transportation system are accommodated: and

WHEREAS, the council commits to allocating resources within its powers and action toward mitigating

these traffic deaths and serious injuries as is needed for a top priority of the Consolidated City of
Indianapolis-Marion County; and

COUNCIL RESOLUTION RECORD 2024

=== 224-2024 proposal document, page 2 of 4 (OCR) ===
C.R. No. 57, 2024
Page 2

WHEREAS, all municipal corporations, excluded cities, and other legal entities within Marion County
are encouraged to establish aligned Vision Zero goals, policies, and practices that, if appropriate, are
reported annually during budget hearings. now, therefore:

BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA:

SECTION 1. Goals. The city sets the goal of eliminating all fatal and serious injury crashes on city streets
by 2035;

SECTION 2. The Council authorizes and agrees to appropriate funding for the city fo establish a full-time,
dedicated, cross-departmental Vision Zero Administrator position by January 1, 2025.

SECTION 3. Task Force. A Vision Zero Task Force is hereby established under the authority of the council
The Task Force shall be named the “Consolidated City of Indianapolis- Marion County Vision Zero Task
Force (‘Task Force’).” The Task Force shall hold pu meetings and report its findings and
recommendations to the full council. Public comment shall be allowed under any rules devised by the Task
Force.

SECTION 4. Task Force Members. The Task Force shall be comprised of 15 members, 8 appointed by
the Council President and 7 appointed by the mayor. All appointees shall be Marion County residents.

The Council President shall appoint three (3) members of the City-County Council, one of whom shall be
appointed from the minority caucus, and one of the three that will serve as chair of the Task Force; one (1)
member representing the older adult community; one (1) member representing a local advocacy
organization; one (1) member representing the county prosecutor's office; one (1) member representing
the recreational cycling community; and one (1) member representing a public school corporation in Marion
County;.

The Mayor shall appoint one (1) member representing the Department of Public Works (DPW); one (1)
member representing the Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department (IMPD); one (1) member
representing the Department of Metropolitan Development (DMD); one (1) member representing the
Department of Business and Neighborhood Services; one (1) member representing the Indianapolis Fire
Department (IFD); one (1) member representing the Office of Financial Management; and one (1) member
representing the Indianapolis Public Transit Authority.

SECTION 5. Meetings. The Task Force shall hold its initial public meeting by October 1, 2024. The Vision
Zero Administrator shall provide staffing to the Task Force with support from other departments as needed.
After its i | meeting, the Task Force shall meet upon the call of its chair or a majority of its members and
shail hold at least two (2) public meetings per calendar year. Eight (8) members of the Task Force shall
constitute a quorum. Any findings or reports of the Task Force shall only be approved by the vote of eight
(8) members. Any vacancy on the Task Force shall be filled in the same manner in which the original
appointment was made. All meetings are subject to Indiana’s Open Door Law, I.C. § 5-14-1.5-1 et seq.,
Access to Public Records Act, I.C. § 5-14-3-1 et seq., and Indiana’s Record Retention Law, |.C. § 5-15 et
seq

SECTION 6. Action Plan. The Vision Zero Task Force shall develop and adopt a Vision Zero Action Plan
(‘Action Plan”) by July 1, 2025, for the purpose of achieving the 2035 goal of eliminating all fatal and serious
injury crashes on [ndianapolis-Marion County roadways under the City’s jurisdiction. The Action Plan sh
focus on a Safe System approach; reflect current best practices and guidelines in transportation safety; be
data driven and equitable; include community input; and be posted on a dedicated location on the city’s
website. Each individual strategy identified in the Action Plan shall, at a minimum, include: deadlines for
implementation; person(s), department(s), and organization(s) responsible for implementation; adequate
funding source or actions needed to obtain funding; and performance goals and metrics.

SECTION 7. Reporting. Progress on implementation of the Vision Zero Action Plan and related
performance measures shall be reported to the council on a quarterly basis. The Vision Zero Action Plan
shall be updated by May annually. The Vision Zero Action Plan shall be formally adopted and
implementation policies and practices established by all relevant city departments, including but not limited

COUNCIL RESOLUTION RECORD 2024

=== 224-2024 proposal document, page 3 of 4 (OCR) ===
C.R. No. 57, 2024
Page 3

to DPW, the IMPD, DMD, IFD, concurrent with the adoption of the Vision Zero Action Plan. The city shail
establish a Vision Zero page on its website, www.indy.gov. The website shall track progress of the Vision
Zero Action Plan and the Plan’s implementation through 2035. The progress dashboard on the website will
be updated biannually, and an annual report summarizing the work compieted on the strategies will be
posted.

SECTION 8. This resolution shall be in full force and effect upon adoption and compliance with IC 36-3-4-
14.

The foregoing was passed by the City-County Council this 12 day of August, 2024, at 9:33 p.m.

ATTEST: V/ A
Vop Osili
j j p . > President, City-County Council
Yulonda Winfield (

Clerk, City-County Council

STATE OF INDIANA, MARION COUNTY)
) 8s:
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS )

|, Yulonda Winfield, Clerk of the City-County Council, Indianapolis, Marion County, Indiana, do hereby certify
the above and foregoing is a full, true, and complete copy of Proposal No. 224, 2024, a Proposal for a
COUNCIL RESOLUTION passed by the City-County Council on the 12!" day of August, 2024, by a vote of
22 YEAS and 3 NAYS, and was retitled Council Resolution No. 57, 2024, and now remains on file and on
record in my office.

WITNESS my hand and the official seal of the City of Indianapolis, Indiana, this 13 day of August, 2024.

Yulonda Winfield Y

Clerk, City-County Council

(SEAL)

COUNCIL RESOLUTION RECORD 2024

=== 224-2024 proposal document, page 4 of 4 (OCR) ===
Indianapolis City - County Council RCS# 315
2020-2023
2024-2027

8/12/2024 9:33 PM

Proposal: PROP-24 224 Ordinance: C.R. 57 (PASSED)
Sponsor: BARTH, NIELSEN, JONES, EVANS, DELANEY, BROWN, CAHI
Action: Adopt
Committee: Public Works

Yea: 22 Nay: 3 Abstain: 0 Not Voting: 0 Excused: 0

Yea - 22
Allen Cahill Graves Nielsen
Annee Carlino Jones Osili
Barth Delaney Lewis Perkins
Boots Dilk Mascari Roberts
Brown-A Evans McCormick Robinson
Brown-J Gibson

Nay - 3
Bain Hart Mowery

Abstain - 0

Not Voting - 0

Excused - 0
