=== 231-2023 proposal document, page 1 of 4 (OCR) ===
CITY-COUNTY GENERAL ORDINANCE NO. 41, 2023
Proposal No, 231, 2023

PROPOSAL FOR A GENERAL ORDINANCE to amend the Revised Code Section 291-602 fo include
personnel with the rank of managers or above in the Emergency Communications Division of the
Metropolitan Emergency Services Agency in the definition of “supervisor.”

BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA:

SECTION 1. Section 291-602 of the Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County, regarding the
definition of “supervisor”, hereby is amended by the addition of the language that is underscored, fo read
as follows:

Sec. 291-602. Definitions.

As used in this article, the following terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section:
City means the employing authorities of Consolidated City of Indianapolis and Marion County.

Collective bargaining means to perform the mutual obligation of the employer, by its representatives,
and the exclusive bargaining representative of employees in an appropriate bargaining unit to meet and
negotiate in good faith at reasonable times and places with respect to terms and conditions of
employment, and any subject covered by a collectively bargained agreement covering city employees on
September 1, 2001 with the intention of reaching an agreement.

Confidential employee means any employee who:

(1) Works in the office of the mayor;

(2) Works in the office of the city-county council;

(3) Works in the office of the corporation counsel;

(4) Works in the office of finance and management or its human resources division;
(5) Is secretary to a department head, director, or elected official; or

(6) is the personal secretary of any supervisor, managerial, or confidential employee.

Employee means any active employee of the City of Indianapolis or Marion County, but the term
employee does not include anyone who is:

(1) An employee of the court;

(2) Aconfidential employee;

(3) Amanagerial employee;

(4) Asupervisor;

(5) An intermittent employee;

(6) Astudent employee;

(7) Atemporary employee;

(8) Amember of a board or commission;

(9) An individual in the custody of any law enforcement agency who is working in a program
through such an agency;

(10) An attorney whose responsibilities include providing legal advice to the city or performing legal
research for the city as a client;

(11) An individual who performs internal investigations:

(12) A member of the Indianapolis Fire Department, the Indianapolis Metropolitan Police
Department, or the Marion County Sheriffs Department who has less than one (1) year of
employment with such department or agency; or

(13) An employee of the county treasurer, clerk, auditor, prosecutor, surveyor, assessor, recorder,
or coroner unless the employee or group of employees is voluntarily recognized by the elected
official holding said office; or

Employee organization means an organization:
(1) In which employees participate, and

(2) That exists for the purpose of representing employees in collective bargaining.
GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2023

=== 231-2023 proposal document, page 2 of 4 (OCR) ===
G.O. No. 41, 2023
Page 2

Exclusive bargaining representative and bargaining agent mean an employee organization chosen by
employees in an appropriate bargaining unit pursuant to this article or recognized by the city as a
representative of an appropriate bargaining unit before the adoption of this article.

Managerial employee means any individual who:

(1) Has responsibility for a unit or sub-unit of a division of an agency or department;

(2) Participates in the formulation of policy;

(3) _ Is significantly engaged in executive or management functions;

(4) Is charged with the responsibility of directing the implementation of management policies,
procedures or practices; or

(5) Is involved in administration of collective bargaining agreements or human resources or
personnel decisions, including, but not limited to, staffing, reductions, reorganizations, hiring,
discipline, evaluations, pay, assignments, transfers, promotions or demotions.

Supervisor means any individual who has authority to hire, transfer, suspend, layoff, recall, promote,
demote, discharge, assign, reward or discipline other employees, or to adjust grievances, or effectively to
recommend any such action. With respect to the Indianapolis Fire Department, “supervisor” includes all
personnel. at the rank of division chief or above. With respect to the Indianapolis metropolitan police
department, "supervisor" includes all personne! with the rank of captain or above. With respect to the
Emergency Communications Division of the Metropolitan Emergency Services Agency, “supervisor”
includes all personnel at the rank of manager or above.

Temporary employee means an individual who is employed for not more than ninety (90) days.

Terms and conditions of employment means wages, hours, allowances, fringe benefits, facilities,
equipment and other physical aspects of employment, personnel policies, and the voluntary payment of
dues through payroll deduction.

SECTION 3. The expressed or implied repeal or amendment by this ordinance of any other ordinance or
part of any other ordinance does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred, or
proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this ordinance. Those rights, liabilities, and proceedings
are continued, and penalties shall be imposed and enforced under the repealed or amended ordinance as
if this ordinance had not been adopted.

SECTION 4. Should any provision (section, paragraph, sentence, clause, or any other portion) of this
ordinance be declared by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, the remaining
provision or provisions shall not be affected, if and only if such remaining provisions can, without the
inv provision or provisions, be given the effect intended by the Council in adopting this ordinance. To
this end the provisions of this ordinance are severable.

SECTION 5. This ordinance shall be in effect from and after its passage by the Council and compliance
with Ind. Code § 36-3-4-14.

The foregoing was passed by the City-County Council this 11" day of September, 2023, at 7:51 p.m.

ATTEST:

Vop Osili

Presid ity-County Council

Yulonda Winfield
Clerk, City-County Council

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2023

=== 231-2023 proposal document, page 3 of 4 (OCR) ===
G.O. No. 41, 2023
Page 3

Presented by me to the Mayor this 12" day of September, 2023

Yulonda Winfield
Clerk, City-County Council

a

Approved and signed by me this __/ 3 day of September, 2023.

Joseph H. Hogsett, Mayor

STATE OF INDIANA, MARION COUNTY)
) $s:
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS )

1, Yulonda Winfield, Clerk of the City-County Council, Indianapolis, Marion County, Indiana, do hereby
certify the above and foregoing is a full, true, and complete copy of Proposal No. 231, 2023, a Proposal for a
GENERAL ORDINANCE passed by the City-County Council on the 11" day of September, 2023, by a vote
of 24 YEAS and 0 NAYS, and was retitled General Ordinance No. 41, 2023, which was signed by the
Mayor on the (3% day of September, 2023, and now remains on file and on record in my office.

WITNESS my hand and the official seal of the City of Indianapolis, Indiana, this / gh day of September,
2023.

"Pee

Yulonda Winfield
Clerk, City-County Council

(SEAL)

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2023

=== 231-2023 proposal document, page 4 of 4 (OCR) ===
Indianapolis City - County Council RCS# 1333
2020-2023
2020-2023

9/11/2023 7:51 PM

Proposal: PROP23- 231 Ordinance: G.O. 41 (PASSED)
Sponsor: RAY, CARLINO, MASCARI
Action: Adopt
Committee: Admin and Fin

Yea: 24 Nay: 0 Abstain: 0 Not Voting: 1 Excused: 0
Yea - 24
Adamson Carlino Jackson Mowery
Annee Evans-E Jones Oliver
Bain Evans-J Larrison Osi
Barth Graves Lewis Potts
Boots Gray Mascari Ray
Brown Hart McCormick Robinson
Nay - 0
Abstain - 0
Not Voting - 0
Not Voting - 1

Dilk
