=== 253-2021 proposal document, page 1 of 10 (OCR) ===
CITY-COUNTY SPECIAL ORDINANCE NO. 9, 2021
Proposal No. 253, 20214

A-SPECIAL ORDINANCE approving the execution of certain leases with the Indianapolis-Marion-County
Building Authority, establishing certain funds and accounts related to such lease, and other related matters.

WHEREAS, the Indianapolis-Marion County Building Authority (the “Building Authority") has been
created pursuant to Indiana Code 36-9-13, as amended, an independent municipal corporation for the
purpose of, among other things, financing government buildings and-systems for lease to “eligible entities"
(as such term is defined in Indiana Code 36-9-13-1, as amended) within Marion County, Indiana; and

WHEREAS, the Consolidated City of Indianapolis, Indiana, as such term is defined in Indiana Code 36-
3-1-4 (the "City") and Marion County, Indiana, as established in Indiana Code 36-2-1-1 (the "County"), are
eligible entities pursuant to Indiana Code 36-9-13-1, as amended; and

WHEREAS, the Building Authority intends to issue a series of bonds pursuant to’indiana Code 36-9-
13-30, as amended, to be known as the “Indianapolis-Marion County Buiiding Authority Lease Rental
Revenue Bonds, Series 2021A (Coroner Project)" (or such other series designation as determined by the
ing Authority) (the "Series 2021A Bonds"), the proceeds of which are to be used to finance the
ion, construction, installation and equipping of a coroner's facility, as more particularly described in
A attached hereto (the "Coroner Project"), together-with expenses incurred in connection therewith,
including capitalized interest, if necessary, the funding of a debt service reserve, if necessary, and the costs
of the issuance of the Series 2021A Bonds therefor; and

WHEREAS, the Building Authority intends to issue a series of bonds pursuant to Indiana Code 36-9-
13-30, as amended, to be known as the "Indianapolis-Marion County Building Authority Lease Rental
Revenue Bonds, Series 2022A (Circle City Forward Project)" (or such other series designation as
determined by the Building Authority) (the "Series 2022A Bonds,” and together with the Series: 2021A
Bonds, the "Bonds"), the proceeds of which are to be used to finance the acquisition, construction,
installation and equipping of the Circle City Forward Projects, as more particularly described and defined
in Exhibit B attached hereto (collectively, the "Circle City Forward Projects,” and together with the Coroner
Project, the Projects"), together with expenses incurred in connection therewith, including capitalized
interest, if necessary, the funding of a debt service reserve, if necessary, and the costs.of the issuance of
the Series 2022A Bonds therefor; and

WHEREAS, the Building Authority intends to lease (a) the Coroner Project to the County pursuantioa
lease to be dated on or after the date of final adoption of this Resolution, as the same may be hereafter
amended from time to time (the "2021A Lease"), and (b) the Circle City Forward Projects to the City and/or
the County pursuant to a lease (which may be one lease or multiple separate leases) to be dated on or
after the date of final adoption of this Resolution, as the same may be hereafter amended from time fo time
(collectively, the "2022A Lease," and together with the 2021A Lease, the "Leases"), the forms of which
Leases are attached hereto in substantially final form and are being approved by this Resolution; and

WHEREAS, notices of public hearings on the proposed Leases were given by publication in the
Indianapolis Star and the Indianapolis Business Journal, and said hearings have been held in accordance
with said notices; and

WHEREAS, there is attached to this Resolution and presented to the City-County Council of the City
of Indianapolis and of Marion County, Indiana (the "City-County Council") at this meeting a substantially
final form of the Leases; and

WHEREAS, the City-County Council has determined that the lease rental payments due under the
2021A Lease attributable to the Coroner Project (the "Coroner Project Rental Payments") shall be payable
from an ad valorem property tax to be levied on all taxable property located within the boundaries of the
County; and

WHEREAS, the City-County Council hereby finds that the Coroner Project is an independently
desirable end in itself without reference to the Circle City Forward Projects or any other project of the County
and will not cost the County more than Sixteen Million Seven Hundred Thousand Dollars ($16,700,000);
and

SPECIAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2021

=== 253-2021 proposal document, page 2 of 10 (OCR) ===
S.O. No. 9, 20214
Page 2

WHEREAS, Indiana Code 6-1.1-20-3.1 requires that the City-County Council conduct two public
hearings for the purpose of receiving public input prior to considering ihe adoption.of a resolution making a
preliminary determination to enter into a lease with the Building Authority for purposes of financing of the
Coroner Project, together with expenses incurred in connection therewith, including capitalized interest, if
necessary, the funding of a debt service reserve, if necessary, and the cosis of the issuance of the Series
2021A Bonds therefor, and notice of the hearings was published in the Indianapolis Star and the
i Business Jaurnal as required by Jaw, and copies of such notice was also mailed to the Marion
County Circuit Court Clerk as required by Indiana Code 6-1.1-20-3.1; and

WHEREAS, the City-County Council (or committees thereof) has held two public hearings in
accordance with the provisions of Indiana Code 6-1.1-20-3.1(b)(1) and has received public input concerning
the Coroner Project; and

WHEREAS, the County has previously acted to impose a county option income tax on the adjusted
gross income of County taxpayers pursuant to Indiana Code 6-3.5-6, which law has been repealed and
codified at Indiana Code 6-3.6 for the.purpose of consolidating the provisions related to various local income
tax laws; and

WHEREAS, the City-County Council has determined to pledge the City’s and County's distributive
shares of public safety and certified shares components of the County local income tax revenues pursuant
to Indiana Code 6-3.6-6, as amended (the "LIT Revenues"), to the lease rental payments due under the
2022A Lease attributable to the Circle City Forward Projects (the “Circle City Forward Projects Rental
Payments"); and

WHEREAS, the City-County Council has concluded, following the public hearings described.above,
that the Circle City Forward Projects are necessary and desirable and will be of general benefit to the
residents of the City and the County, separate and apart from the Coroner Project; and

WHEREAS, the City-County Council has concluded, following the public hearings described above,
that the Coroner Project is itself necessary and desirable and will be of general benefit to. the residents of
the County, separate and apart from the Circle City Forward Projects; and

WHEREAS, the Projects and the entering. into the Leases with the Building Authority for purposes of
financing the Projects, together with expenses incurred in connection therewith, including capitalized
interest, if necessary, the funding of.a debt service reserve, if necessary, and the costs of the issuance of
the Bonds therefor, are necessary and will-be of general benefit to the City and the County and their
taxpayers; and

WHEREAS, the City and the County do not have sufficient funds available or provided for in the existing
budgets or tax levies that may be applied to the costs of the Projects, together with expenses incurred in
connection therewith, including capitalized interest, if necessary, the funding of a.debt service reserve, if
necessary, and the costs of the issuance of the Bonds therefor, making it necessary for the City and/or the
County to enter into the Leases with the Building Authority to provide for the financing of the Projects; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to Resolution No. 20, 2018, adopted. by the City-County Council on November
19, 2018, the City and the County have previously pledged the LIT Revenues to the payment of lease
rentals pursuant to a Lease dated as of April 1, 2019, among the City, the County and the Building Authority,
as amended (as amended, the "2019 Lease"), which lease rentals are used to pay bonds designated
"Indianapolis-Marion County Building Authority Lease Rental. Revenue Bonds, Series 2019A (Jail and
Courthouse Project)," currently outstanding in the aggregate principal amount of Six Hundred Ten Million
Six Hundred Forty-Five Thousand Dollars ($610,645,009) with a final maturity date of January 15, 2054;
and

WHEREAS, it is necessary for the City and the County to (i) establish certain funds and accounts for
the payment of the rentals owed by the City and the County pursuant to the Leases, (ii) covenant to levy
an ad valorem property tax to make all required Coroner Project Rental Payments. due under the 2021A
Lease, and pledge the LIT Revenues to be received by the City and the County to make the Circle City
Forward Projects Rental Payments due under the 2022A Lease, on a parity with the pledge of the LIT
Revenues to the payment of the lease rentals due under the 2019 Lease; and

SPECIAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2021

=== 253-2021 proposal document, page 3 of 10 (OCR) ===
S.0. No. 9, 2021
Page 3

WHEREAS, certain preliminary expenses related to the Projects have been or will be incurred by the
City.or the County, as applicable, or on the City's or the County's behalf, prior to the issuance and delivery
of the respective series of the Bonds; and

WHEREAS, the City-County Council desires to express its intention to reimburse such expenditures as
have been or may be incurred prior to the issuance of the Bonds, pursuant to Indiana Code 5-1-14-6 and
in compliance with Section 1.150-2 of the U.S. Treasury Regulations promulgated by the Internal Revenue
Service (the "Treasury Regulations"); now, therefore:

BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA:

SECTION 1. .A need exists for the Projects and the funds needed therefor exceed the funds presently
available to the City and the County.

SECTION 2. .The City-County Council hereby makes and confirms the findings described in the preambles
to this Resolution.

SECTION 3. .Each of the proposed Leases with the Building Authority, as lessor, provides for a fair and
reasonable basis for determining the lease rentals thereunder, and, further, the-execution of the Leases is
necessary and in the best interests of the City and/or the County.

SECTION 4. .The Clerk of the City-County Council is authorized and directed to initial and date a copy of
the form of the proposed Leases and to place the same in the minute book of the. City-County Council
immediately following the minutes of this meeting; and the Leases are made a part of this Resolution as
fully as if it were set forth herein. One copy of the Leases shall be kept on file for public inspection at the
office of the Clerk of the City-County Council.

SECTION 5. .As soon as can be done after the passage of this Resolution, the Leases, in substantially the
form submitted to the City-County Council at this meeting, shall be executed by the Mayor, as executive of
the City and/or the County (the "Mayor"), and attested by the Clerk of the City-County Council (the "Clerk")
and/or the Auditor of the County (the "Auditor"), and one or more notices of the approval of the Leases
under Indiana Code 36-9-13-28 shall be published according to law. The Mayor is authorized to approve
such modifications to the substantially final form of the Leases as the Mayor deems necessary and
appropriate prior to the.execution of the Leases, with the.execution of the Leases by the Mayor, as
conclusive evidence of the Mayor's approval thereof.

SECTION 6. .The term. of the lease of the Coroner Project under the 2021A Lease shall not exceed twenty
(20) years, commencing on the date the Coroner Project is completed and ready for occupancy, and the
maximum annual Coroner Project Rental Payments due under the 2021A Lease shall not exceed One
Million Two Hundred Thousand Dollars ($1,200,000). The term of the. lease of the Circle City Forward
Projects under the 2022A Lease shall not exceed forty (40) years, commencing. on the date the Circle City
Forward Projects are completed and ready for occupancy, and the maximum annual Circle City Forward
Projects Rental Payments due under the 2022A Lease shall not exceed Nine Million Eight Hundred
Thousand Dollars ($9,800,000),

SECTION 7. .The City-County Council hereby authorizes the City. and/or the County to enter into one or
more agreements with the Building Authority, or such other entity or entities as deemed advisable, to
provide for any of the operations, maintenance and management of the Projects.

SECTION 8. .The preliminary drawings, plans, specifications and cost estimates for the Projects shall be
submitted to the City and the County and approved by the Mayor prior to the execution of the respective
Leases, and such plans and specifications shall be submitted to the various governmental agencies as
required by law upon their final approval by the Mayor.

SECTION 9. .There is hereby created and established a Bond Fund to consist of a Series 2021A Lease

Payment Account (the "Series 2021A Lease Payment Account") and a Series 2022A Lease Payment

Account (the "Series 2022A Lease Payment Account") and such other accounts as the City and/or the

County shail from time to time establish. From the Series 2021A Lease Payment Account, all required

Coroner Project Rental Payments due under the 2021A Lease shall be made by the County to the Building
SPECIAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2021

=== 253-2021 proposal document, page 4 of 10 (OCR) ===
S.O. No. 9, 2021
Page 4

Authority. From the Series 2022A Lease Payment Account, all required Circle City Forward Projects Rental
Payments due under .the.2022A Lease shall be made by the City and the’ County,.as applicable, to the
Building Authority.

SECTION 10. .The Circle City Forward Projects Rental Payments to be paid from the Series 2022A Lease
Payment Account under the 2022A Lease shall be payable from the LIT Revenues, on a parity with the
pledge of the LIT Revenues to the payment of the lease rentals due under the 2019 Lease. Notwithstanding
the foregoing, in lieu of paying the Circle City Forward Projects Rental Payments to the Building Authority,
the City and the County may agree to deposit with the corporate trustee for the Series 2022A Bonds, funds
to meet the City's and the County's Circle City Forward Projects Rental Payment-obligations.

SECTION 11. The City and the County, in consideration of the iease of the Circle City Forward Projects,
in order to secure the payment of rentals due thereunder and the performance and observance of the
covenants thereunder, hereby pledges to the Building Authority, and the holders of the Series 2022A Bonds,
the LIT Revenues received by the City and the County, along with any investment earnings thereon, such
pledge to be effective as set forth in Indiana Code 5-1-14-4 without filing or recording of the 2022A Lease,
this Resolution or any other instrument; provided, that the pledge of LIT Revenues-to the payment of the
Circle City Forward Projects Rental Payments due under the 2022A Lease shall rank on a parity with the
pledge of the LIT Revenues to the payment of the lease rentals due-under the 2019 Lease. The pledge of
LIT Revenues shall be effective only to the extent and for the term that.the City and the County are obligated
to make Circle City Forward Projects Rental Payments under the 2022A Lease. The obligation of the City
and the County to make Circle City Forward Projects Rental Payments under the 2022A Lease is limited to
LIT Revenues, and investment earnings thereon, and shall not be considered a debt of the City or the
County for purposes of the Constitution or laws of the State of Indiana.

SECTION 12. The City and the County reserve the right to autherize and issue bonds, enter into leases
or incur other obligations entitled to the pledge of LIT Revenues, in whole or in part, or any combination
thereof, and otherwise pledge the City’s and the County’s LIT Revenues to secure bonds, lease rental
payments or other obligations, for any legally authorized purpose, or to refund any Parity Obligations,
ranking on a parity with the pledge of the LIT Revenues to the payment of the Circle City Forward Projects
Rental Payments due under the 2022A Lease (such additional bonds, lease rental payments or other
obligations, the “Parity Obligations”). The authorization and issuance of Parity Obligations shall be subject
to the following conditions precedent:

(a) All Cirele City Forward Projects Rental Payments due under the Lease and all payments on
any outstanding Parity Obligations (including the 2019 Lease) payable from LIT Revenues shall be
current fo date in accordance with theterms thereof, with no payment in arrears.

(b) The City and the County shall have received a certificate prepared by a certified public
accountant, financial advisor or feasibility consultant certifying that the amount of the LIT Revenues
received in any twelve (12) consecutive month period within the prior eighteen (18) calendar
months immediately preceding the date of issuance of the Parity Obligations proposed to be issued
shall be at least equal to three hundred percent (300%) of the combined maximum annual debt
service and iease rental requirements of. (i) the Circle City Forward Projects Rental Payments due
under the 2022A Lease, {ii} all then outstanding Parity Obligations (including the 2019 Lease), and
(iii) the Parity Obligations proposed to be issued, for each respective year, during the remaining
term of the 2022A Lease.

(c) Payments of any Parity Obligations payable from the LIT Revenues shall be payable on dates
consistent with the lease rental payment dates of the 2022A Lease of the Circle City Forward
Projects.

SECTION 13. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the City and the County may issue obligations payable
from LIT Revenues on a junior and subordinate basis to the_pledge of LIT Revenues to the payment of
the Circle City Forward Projects Rental Payments due under the Lease. However, any such junior and
subordinate obligations payable from LIT Revenues shall be payable on dates consistent with the lease
tental payment dates of the 2022A Lease of the Circle City Forward Projects.

SECTION 14. For purposes of providing additional security for the Series 2022A Bonds or otherwise
further securing the pledge of the LIT Revenues to the payment of the Circle City Forward Projects Rental
SPECIAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2021

=== 253-2021 proposal document, page 5 of 10 (OCR) ===
S.O. No. 9, 2021
Page 5

Payments due under the 2022A Lease, the Mayor and the Controller of the City (the "Controller") are
specifically authorized by the City-County Council to enter. into a revenue deposit or pledge agreement (or
an amendment to the existing revenue deposit agreement relating to the LIT Revenues) providing for the
direct deposit of LIT Revenues and/or any other legally available revenues with a deposit trustee into a
segregated account and/or containing such other terms as the Mayor and the Controller may determine to
be necessary or desirable to carry out the provisions of this Resolution.

SECTION 15. The City-County Council authorizes the Mayor, the Controller and the Auditor to create
separate, segregated funds or accounts, from legally available funds of the City and/or County, to provide
for a debt service reserve for the payment of lease rentals, the payment of operations and maintenance for
the Projects, and for life-cycle repair and replacement costs for the Projects. Upon issuance of the Series
2022A Bonds, the Mayor, the Controller and the Auditor are authorized to transfer funds from a debt service
reserve fund or account created pursuant to this Resolution to the trustee for the Series 2022A Bonds, after
such appropriation by the City-County Council in 2022 (or the year of issuance of the Series 2022A Bonds)
of an amount not exceeding the maximum annual debt service due on the Series 2022A Bonds, as required
by applicable law.

SECTION 16. CORONER PROJECT: The City-County Council hereby determines that this Resolution
shall constitute the preliminary determination of the County required by Indiana Code 6-1.1-20-3.1(b) to
enter into a lease to provide for the financing of the Coroner Project, together with expenses incurred in
connection therewith, including capitalized interest, if necessary, the funding of a debt service reserve, if
necessary, and the costs of the issuance of the Series 2021A Bonds.therefor.

SECTION 17. CORONER PROJECT: The City-County Council hereby authorizes and directs the
Controller of the Consolidated- City and/or the Auditor, in conjunction with counsel to give such notice as
required by the provisions of Indiana Code 6-1. 1-20-3.4(b}(2) and (b)(3) of the preliminary determination to
enter into the 2021A Lease for purposes of financing the costs of the Coroner Project.

SECTION 18. CORONER PROJECT: The County shail levy in each calendar year beginning in the year
prior to the first calendar year in which the County is required to pay Coroner Project Rental Payments due
under the 2021A Lease, an ad valorem property tax upon all of the taxable property located within the
boundaries of the County, in a total amount sufficient, together with alt other funds in the Series 2021A
Lease Payment Account deposited into such account from any other sources (other than such property
taxes) during the previous twelve (12) months prior to August 1 of such calendar year, to pay all Coroner
Project Rental Payments due under the. Coroner Lease inthe twelve (12)-month period beginning on July
1 of the following calendar year.

SECTION 19. The County, in consideration of the lease of the Coroner Project, in order to secure the
payment of rentals due thereunder and the performance and observance of the covenants thereunder,
hereby pledges to the Building Authority, and the holders of the Series 2021A Bonds, the ad valorem
property tax revenues described in this Section received by the County, along with any investment
earnings thereon, such pledge to be effective as set forth in Indiana Code-5-1-14-4 without filing or
recording of the Lease, this Resolution or any other instrument. The pledge of such ad valorem property
tax revenues shall be effective only to the extent and for the term that the County is obligated to make the
Coroner Project Rentai Payments under the Lease. The obligation of the County to make Coroner
Project Rental Payments under the Lease is limited to such ad valorem property tax revenues, and
investment earnings thereon, and shall not be considered a debt of the City or County for purposes of the
Constitution or laws of the State of Indiana.

SECTION 20. Actions with respect to the Projects required to be undertaken by officials of the City and/or
County under applicable jaw performed by designees or agents of such officials are hereby ratified.

SECTION 21. The Mayor, the Controller, the Clerk, the Auditor and any other City or County official as
may be necessary are, and each of them is, hereby authorized to take all such actions and to execute or
attest all such instruments as are necessary and desirable to carry out the transactions contemplated by
this Resolution, including, without limitation, one or more addenda to the Leases reducing lease rentals
based on the results of the sale of the Bonds, one or more continuing disclosure undertaking agreements,
one or more letters of representations to the underwriters regarding a bond purchase agreement, and one
or more preliminary official statements or official statements, in such forms as the Mayor, the Controller,

SPECIAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2021

=== 253-2021 proposal document, page 6 of 10 (OCR) ===
S.O. No. 9, 2021
Page 6

the Clerk, the Auditor, and any other City or County official executing or attesting the same shall deem
proper, to be evidenced by the execution or aitestation thereol. —

SECTION 22. The City-County Council hereby declares that it reasonably expects to reimburse with the
proceeds of the Bonds expenditures for the Projects made by the City or the County prior to the issuance
of the Bonds during the period beginning on the date sixty (60) days prior to the date of this Resolution until
the date of issuance of the Bonds, which expenditures are expected to be paid initially from other legally
available funds of the City or the County. The City-County Council hereby declares that this Resolution is
being adopted for purposes of evidencing compliance with Indiana Code 5-1-14-6 and Section 1.150-2 of
the Treasury Regulations.

SECTION 23. The City-County Council agrees not to rescind this Resolution for so long as any of the
Bonds are outstanding. The City-County Council further agrees not to amend this Resolution in any manner
that will affect or impair any of the rights of the holders of any outstanding Bonds.

SECTION 24. This Ordinance shall be in full force and effect after its adoption by the City-County Council
and compliance with Indiana Code 36-3-4-14, Indiana Code 36-3-4-15 and Indiana Code 36-3-4-16.

The foregoing was passed-by the City-County Council this 13" day of September, 2021, at 7:57 p.m.

ATTEST:

a

ity-County Council

SaRita Hughes
Clerk, City-County Council

Presented by me to the Mayor this 15!" day of September, 2021.

SaRita Hughes
Clerk, City-County Council

6E

Approved and signed by me this my =~ day of September, 2021.
0 sebAl ef lf é

Joseph H. Hogsett, Mayor

SPECIAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2021

=== 253-2021 proposal document, page 7 of 10 (OCR) ===
S.O. No. 9, 2021
Page 7

STATE OF INDIANA, MARION COUNTY
ror Ss:

CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS

|, SaRita Hughes, Clerk of the City-County Council, Indianapolis, Marion County, Indiana, do hereby certify
the above and foregoing is a full, true, and complete copy of Proposal No. 253, 2021, a Proposal for a
SPECIAL ORDINANCE passed by the City-County Council an the 13" day of September, 2021, by a vote of
23 YEAS and 0 NAYS and was retitled Special Ordinance No. 9, 2021, which was signed by the Mayor on
the oof ca day of September, 2021, and now remains on file and on record in my office.

WITNESS my hand and the official seal of the City of Indianapolis, indiana, this Al AE day of September,
2021.

SPM

SaRita Hughes
Clerk, City-County Council

(SEAL}

SPECIAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2021

=== 253-2021 proposal document, page 8 of 10 (OCR) ===
$.O. No. 9, 2021
Page 8

Exhibit A

Coroner Project

Proposed design and construction of a new coroner's office, storage and autopsy facility as a part of a
multi-building complex.

SPECIAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2021

=== 253-2021 proposal document, page 9 of 10 (OCR) ===
S.0. No. 9, 2021
Page 9

Exhibit B

Circle City Forward Projects

Proposed design and construct a new Forensics Crime Lab as part of a muiti-building complex.

Proposed construction of a new juvenile justice facility including courts and detention center.

Proposed new animal care shelter, dog park and livestock area.

Proposed demolition of old family center, construction of a new family center with new parking
and an upgraded. playground, at Frederick Douglass Park.

Any costs for projects related or ancillary to the projects described in (1) through (4) above.

SPECIAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2021

=== 253-2021 proposal document, page 10 of 10 (OCR) ===
Indianapolis City - County Council RCS# 262
2020-2023
2020-2023

9/13/2021 7:57 PM

Proposal: PROP21- 253 Ordinance: S.O. 9 (PASSED)
Sponsor: Mascari
Action: Adopt
Committee: Admin and Fin

Yea: 23 Nay: 0 Abstain: 1 Not Voting: 0 Excused: 1
Yea - 23
Adamson Dilk Jones Oliver
Bain Evans-J Larrison Osili
Barth Graves Lewis Potts
Boots Gray Mascari Ray
Brown Hart McCormick Robinson
Carlino Jackson Mowery
Nay - 0
Abstain - 1
Evans-E
Excused - 1
Annee

Excused - 0
