=== 257-2021 proposal document, page 1 of 20 (OCR) ===
CITY-COUNTY GENERAL ORDINANCE NO. 33, 2021
Proposal No, 257, 2021

PROPOSAL FOR A.GENERAL ORDINANCE to amend. the Revised Code to clarify provisions.regarding the
indianapolis Fire Department, reflect the prevailing operations of the department, and make technical
corrections.

BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA:

SECTION 1. Chapter 252 “Indianapolis Fire Department” of the Revised Code of the Consolidated City and
County, hereby is amended by the deletion of the language that is stricken-through, and by the addition of the
language that is underscored, to read as follows:

Sec. 252-101. Definitions.

As used in this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the meanings ascribed to them in
this section.

Chief or Chief of Fire means the chief executive officer of the Indianapolis fire department appointed
pursuant to this article.

Civilian fire merit board or merit board means the Indianapolis fire department Merit Board created
pursuant to this chapter.

Department means the Indianapolis fire department.

Fire special service district means the special service district created pursuant to IC 36-3-1-6 and
section 111-3 of the Code.

Member or firefighter means a regularly employed firefighter of the indianapolis fire department.

Merit rank means all promotions to the rank of lieutenant, captain, and battalion chief made in
accordance with the Indianapolis fire department's merit system.

Non-suppression division means all firefighters assigned to work an average of one hundred and twenty
(120) hours in a twenty-one-day work period at various indianapolis fire department worksites other than
fire stations.

Suppression division means all department firefighters assigned to work one hundred and forty-four
(144) hours in a twenty-one-day work period.

Sec. 252-102. Indianapolis fire department; jurisdiction, powers, and duties.

(a) The indianapolis fire department shail have the authority and jurisdiction throughout the fire special
service district and such other territory where the department provides fire protection services as provided
by law.

(b) It shall be the duty of the indianapolis fire department to suppress all fires that occur in the fire
special service district and such other territory, to prevent the occurrence and spread of such fires, to
provide emergency medical services and rescue operations, and to investigate fires.

(c) The department shall have all powers prescribed in chapter 591 of this Code and all other powers
necessary to fulfill these duties and any other powers granted by law, the city-county council or the mayor.

Sec, 252-103. Appointment and qualifications of chief; powers and duties.

(a) The mayor shall appoint a chief of the Indianapolis fire department subject to city-county council
confirmation who serves at the pleasure of the mayor and reports directly to the mayor.

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2021

=== 257-2021 proposal document, page 2 of 20 (OCR) ===
*~ eaptain or above on the basis of prior-training and-experience, and s

G.O. No. 33, 20214
Page 2

(b) The chief may be selected from members of the department who hold the permanent merit rank of

ten-(10) years of service with the department, which time period shall include a person’s
service as a full-time, paid member of any a fire department that has been consolidated into the department.

(c) The chief may be selected from past members of the department or from members or past
members of a fire department other than the department only if he or she has:

(1) Met the following educational requirements:

a. A bachelor's or master's degree from an accredited institution of higher education in fire
science, management, public administration or a related field; or;

b. A bachelor's degree from an accredited institution of higher education in a non-related field:
and

i. An associate's degree in fire science; or

An executive fire officer designation from the National Fire Academy or its successor
institution; or

Achief fire officer designation from the Center for Public Safety Excellence or its-successor

(2) Attained fire officer |, ll, and Il) andre officer! certification;

(3) At least fourteen (14) ten-49) years of experience in a fire department of a city with-a population of
one hundred thousand (100,000) or more in Indiana, another state, or the District of Columbia; and

(4) Achieved the merit rank of captain (or its equivalent) or above.

(d) The chief may appoint any number of executive assistants, who shall hold the temporary rank and
title of assistant chief, deputy chief, division chief or shift commander as the chief he-or-she deems
necessary to efficiently discharge the chief's his-or-her executive duties. The chief shall select these
executive assistants from among those holding the permanent merit rank of captain or above in. the
department. The appointed ranks of assistant-chief, deputy chief, division chief and shift commander shall
be temporary, and each executive assistant shall retain their his-er-her permanent merit rank, unless
promoted in accordance with the merit system. The chief may temporarily appoint and.assign members. of
the department to lieutenant, captain, or battalion chief in the non-suppression division, and such member's
pay grade shall be commensurate with the duties and qualifications required of the member. Such
assignment shall have no effect on the merit rank of the member.

The chief shall have general authority over all matters, personnel, and property relating to and
connected with the department, unless otherwise restricted by law. This authority includes the following
powers and duties:

(1) To organize the department and determine and implement policies, methods and means by which
operations are conducted;

(2) Oversee the daily operation of the-department;

(3)_ Execute contracts on behaif of the department subject to the powers of the mayor, the board of the
office of public health and safety, and any limitations prescribed by law;

(24)Make general and special rules and regulations for the government and discipline of the
department, to the extent such duties and powers are not granted to the merit board;

(35)To administer and oversee the department's fire merit system with the mayor as provided by this
code, relating to appointment, transfer, discipline and removal of members and-empleyees of the
department pursuant to applicable rules, regulations and laws in accordance with an established
merit system;

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2021

Il have-a minimum of fourteen-(14}-

=== 257-2021 proposal document, page 3 of 20 (OCR) ===
G.O. No. 33, 2021
Page 3

---(48)To enter into contracts with town or township firefighting companies or associations -for.mutual.c
aid and assistance programs, life-saving, firefighting, emergency services, ambulance services,
mutual communications services, coordinating training programs, or central dispatching programs
in accordance with applicable law;

(57)To purchase, rent or improve any real estate or personal property, subject to appropriations therefor
by the city-county council and subject to the powers of the mayor and the board of public health
and safety;

(68)To purchase or obtain necessary supplies, equipment, and services; subject fo the authority. of the
board of the office of public safety and purchasing laws;

(Z9)In conjunction with the mayor, to fix the number of employees, members and reservists of the
department;

(810) To temporarily appoint additional personnel-on application.of any person or corporation in
response to any emergency, riot or insurrection as declared by the mayor, which persons the
director may remove at any time without hearing or notice or assigning-any cause;

(911) To delegate to the personnel employed in the department authority to act in the chief's his
orher behalf as provided in IC 36-3-5-5(c); and

(4912) Any other powers that may be granted by law or by the mayor.
Sec. 252-104. Budget.

The chief shall prepare and submit an annual budget to the fire special service district council that shall
approve or modify said budget. The fire special service district council shall appropriate funds to finance
the operations and activities of the Indianapolis fire department provided for in this article. These
appropriated funds shall be deposited with the consolidated city controller in an account known as the
“Indianapolis fire department account." The chief shall have authority to expend, under regular consolidated
city procedure in accordance with applicable law, all sums appropriated to such account for the purposes,
activities and services contemplated by this chapter. At the end-of each fiscal year, any unexpended portion
of such account shall revert to the fire special service district general fund.

Sec. 252-105. Reserved.

Sec. 252-106. Personnel division branch.

(a) There is hereby created a personnel division branch as a part of the Indianapolis fire department,

which shall be supervised en-a-daily-basis by a deputy chief dlrector of personnel whe-shall-be appointed
by the Cchief of Fire

(bs)Subject to applicable law, and with approval of the civilian fire merit board and chief, the deputy
chief director supervising ef the personnel division branch shall be responsible for the development and
implementation of personnel management programs within the department. These personnel management
programs shall be: merit systems relating to member recruitment; applicant screening, testing and selection;
job auditing; g; performance evaluation; transfer; promotion, separation, reemployment career
development; discipline; employee relations; grievance procedures; and, personnel records management.

Sec. 252-107. Civilian employees.

The chief, through the personnel division branch, shall
GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2021

an employees and shail make

=== 257-2021 proposal document, page 4 of 20 (OCR) ===
G.O. No. 33, 2021
Page 4

maximum use of ci

an employees in positions in the department not requiring firefighters.

Sec. 252-108. Life and liabifity insurance.

The chief shall recommend to the corporation counsel and the office of finance and management
appropriate group life and disability insurance coverage to cover all members of the Indianapolis fire
department. Such insurance coverage may be purchased and maintained in reasonable amounts and shall
cover only firefighters killed or disabled in the line of duty. The chief shall recommend to the corporation
counsel and the office of finance and management appropriate insurance to indemnify members of the
department against liability for injuries or damages to persons or property resulting from alleged acts of
negligence, wrongful-acts or omission of such members while acting within the scope of their authority and
employment.

Sec. 252-109. Fire protection outside the-fire special service district.

The Indianapolis. fire department may provide fire protection. or services outside the boundaries of the
fire special service district, only under the following circumstances.and upon the following conditions:

(1) The chief or the mayor may enter into any contract or mutual agreement or understanding with the
ranking fire officer of any existing municipal or volunteer fire department or with the chief executive
officer of any unit of government that maintains or finances an established fire department, wherein
the agreement provides for the mutual assistance between the department and the other fire
department such that the ranking officers -of the respective fire departments may request, when
necessary, the assistance without charge to the.assisted department. The department is authorized
to render such assistance as is requested by the ranking officer on duty with the respective
department so long as the rendering of such assistance shall not endanger the citizens cf the fire
special service district or threaten the ability of the department to render services within the fire
special service district.

(2) The department, upon approval of the mayor, may enter into a contract with any person,
municipality, or other governmental unit that is situated at a place not within the fire special service
district but within the county and that is desirous of contracting with the city for regular fire protection
involving the use and services of the Indianapolis fire department. The details of such contract shall
be specified by the department, but each contract must provide that the city furnish on a calendar-
year basis so much firefighting service and apparatus as may be reasonably necessary on the
request of the contracting person, municipality or other governmental unit when a fire exists at the
premises of such person or within the boundaries of the municipality or governmental unit, but that
obligation to render such services shall not exist at any time that the same would endanger or
threaten the services of the Indianapolis fire department to the citizens of the fire special service
district. The contract shall also provide for a negotiated rate or fees. payable as required by the
department for the rendering of such services and may provide for additional charges based on the
actual services and apparatus used in the performance of such agreement.

(3) Upon consolidation of a township fire department into the Indianapolis fire department pursuant to
IC 36-3-1-6.1, the department shall provide fire protection or services in the territory where such
services were formerly provided by the township fire department.
Sec. 252-201. Civilian fire merit board.

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2021

=== 257-2021 proposal document, page 5 of 20 (OCR) ===
G.O. No. 33, 2021
Page 5

(a) There is hereby established a ci n fire merit board that Shall be composed of four (4) persons

indianapolis fire department in accordance with IC 36-8-3.5-1. Each person member serving on of the merit
board shall be a registered voter who resides within the department's jurisdiction as established by section
252-102 of the Code, and no person member appointed or elected to the merit board shall be a firefighter
or employee member of the department or of any other police or fire department or agency, or hold another
elective or appointive office ir either a city, town, township, county or state government. All persons.
whether appointed or elected, shall serve on the merit board for a term of two (2) yearsand-all-members,
j their respective successor

shall be appointed or elected, ‘and qualified.

The mayor may remove an appointee from the merit board, with or without cause, without right_of
hearing. If a mayoral appointee vacancy occurs, the mayor shall appoint _a replacement to serve the
unexpired term. Ifa vacancy exists to be filled by the active members of the department, a replacement
shall be elected, in accordance with IC 36-8-2-3.5-8, by the active members to serve the unexpired term,
A person -may serve on the merit board for successive terms, whether appointed or elected An-appointed

(b) The chief shall be an ex officio member of the merit board without voting power.

(c) A quorum. for the € purpose of taking offici al action Shai consist of 3 persons. Fhree-(3}-members-of
board. ; howevern In the event of a tie
vote, the recommendation of the chief shall be deemed. ‘adopted by the board.

(d) The merit board shail establish rules for its operation. Included in such rules shall be the time and
place for holding regular monthly meetings and such special meetings throughout the year as may be
deemed necessary to transact its business. Each year the merit board, with the concurrence of the Chief
of Fire director, shall select-from its membership maembers a president, vice-president and secretary.

(e) The merit board shall administer and supervise the merit system established by this article.

Sec, 252-202. Merit selection and procedures.

(a) Any person, including persons seeking reappointment or reinstatement, shall be appointed to the
indianapolis fire department in accordance with the merit selection and appointment procedure created by
this section and such rules and regulations. as may be established by the merit board in accordance with
the provisions of this section. Such rules and regulations may change the order of their procedure but not
the substance of the requirements established by this section. Appointment and reappointment to the
department shall be made without regard to an applicant's political party preference or activity.

(b) Aperson An-individual may.not submit an application, ef be appointed, or reappointed as a member
of the department unless the person individual is at least twenty-one (27) years of age but not yet reached
the age of thirty-six (36). sb¢b36") birthday. The age thirty-six limitation shail not apply if the persoris a
former member or a retired member not yet receiving retirement benefits of the 1937 or 1977 fund and can
complete twenty (20) years of service before reaching sixty (60) years of age as in the case of a firefighter
leaving another fire department to be employed as..a ‘firefighter (member) with the Indianapolis Fire

Department.

The individual applicant must have at least a high school education or equivalent to be eligible to make
application to become a member of the department, and each applicant must meet minimum fitness/medical
standards adopted by the department and continue to meet minimum fitness/medical standards, as a
condition of employment, while serving as a member of the department. The department shall develop job-

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2021

=== 257-2021 proposal document, page 6 of 20 (OCR) ===
G.O. No. 33, 2021
Page 6

related minimum standards with the assistance of an independent consultant in order to meet applicable

federal and-state. guidelines: Ali Applicants 4 s appointed or. reappointed. io:the deparirent musi:

establish residency in compliance with state statute. Marlen-County or a-_contiguous-county at-the-time of
such-appointment or reappointment. Applicants shall not have been convicted of an offense that is a felony

under indiana law.

Applicants must obtain an application form from the personnel division branch and must comply with
the follawing additional requirements:

(1)

(2)

(3)
(4)

Applicants must pass a complete physical examination and a psychological examination in
accordance with state law. The psychological examination shall be given by an individual approved
by the state board of examiners in psychology or the state board of medical registration. If a written
psychological examination is administered, such examination shall be approved by the state board
of examiners in mental health or the state board of medical registration, in accordance with
psychological examinations approved by the PERF board in consultation with the commissioner of
mental health. Applicants may be required to pay up.to one-half (’4) of the costs of the required
physical and psychological examinations in accordance with applicable departmental rules.

Applicants must pass a-written examination.to evaluate both aptitude and intellectual capacity for
fire work.

Applicants must pass a job-related agility test.

Applicants shall have a@ structured oral interview as established by the fire merit board.

The rules and procedures for the above requirements shall be set by the chief with the approval of the
merit board.

(c)

The chief, with the approval of the board, shall give a preference for employment te for any the

following, all of which must be validated by the department:

(1)

(2}

An applicant A-persen who has served in the military service and has received an ‘honorable
discharge from any branch of the service including the Coast. Guard (as defined in IC 36-8-4-10),
and any-participant in-the Army PaYS Program;

An applicant A-persen whose mother or father was a firefighter of a unit, municipal police officer,
or county police officer, who died in the line of duty (as defined in IC 5-10-10-2);

(3) An applicant A-persea who successfully graduated from a City of indianapolis or Marion County

high school; and/or

(4) An applicant A-persen who is a resident of Marion County as of the date the person submits an

(5)

application for employment;-

An applicant_who has graduated from the department's Arsenal Tech High School, CTC

Fire/Rescue program.

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2021

=== 257-2021 proposal document, page 7 of 20 (OCR) ===
G.O. No. 33, 2021
Page 7

(d) The personnel division branch shall prepare a list of those applicants eligible for appointment
.fanked.in-order.of their total. combined. score--The-written. examination stiail.constitute-no more-ihan. fifly
(50) percent of the applicant's total eligibility score. Any combination of the preferences described in
subsection (c) of this section shall constitute no more than five (5) percent of the applicant's total eligibility
score. Prior to the creation of the eligibility list, the personne! branch, with approval of the merit board, shall
establish the weight of each of the components of the applicant process.

(e) Beginning with the applicant having the highest eligibility score on the el ty list, the department
shall conduct a background investigation into the personal history and character of the applicant. Any
information indicating that the applicant has engaged-in any conduct or activities that would warrant the
disqualification of the applicant from appointment to the department shall be forwarded to the deputy chief
supervising chairman of the personnel division branch and shall be made a part of the applicant's file. The
file shall be presented by the deputy chief efthe- persennel-branch to the merit board, which shall determine
whether such conduct or activities are such as to disqualify the applicant for appointment.

(f) Final eligibility lists prepared as the result of an applicant screening process shall be in effect for
two (2) years or until a new eligibility list for the next process is final, whichever occurs earlier sooner. A
new applicant screening process shall be initiated by the department no later than eighteen (18) months
after a final eligibility-list is certified by the. merit board. The merit board shall establish procedures for the
management of the final eligibility lists. Any. applicant who, personally.or through any other person, solicits
any member of the merit board to favor the applicant's his-or-her appointment or reinstatement to the
department shall be thereby rendered ineligible for any such appointment.

Sec. 252-203. Vacancies; training academy for recruits; probationary period.

(a) The chief shall appoint as recruit trainees such applicantor applicants as are necessary to fill any
vacancies that exist in the indianapelis-fire department. Eighty (80) percent of such vacancies to be
appointed at one time by the chief shall be filled by taking the applicant having the highest score on the
final eligibility list and proceeding down the list in order. The chief shall fill the remaining twenty (20) percent
of the vacancies by selecting any person. remaining on the final eligibility list. In making these selections,
the chief shall consider applicants candidates who, in the opinion of the chief, are best qualified for
appointment based on such considerations as cumulative score on the merit selections procedures, and
community and legal obligations of the department and the city. Recruit trainees shail be assigned to the
fire training academy for a training course prescribed-by the chief with the approval of the merit board. No
recruit trainee shall be assigned to regular active duty until the recruit trainee he-ershe has attended and
successfully completed the training course so prescribed. Failure to complete the course successfully shail
result in dismissal from the department. After completing the training course, the recruit trainee shall be
elevated to the probationary rank of firefighter and shall be assigned to regular active duty. The probationary
period shall last for one (1) year of actual service from the date of the recruit trainee’s graduation from the
training academy. Each probationary firefighter shall be evaluated monthly during this period by their his-or
her immediate supervisor pursuant to the evaluation system provided for in this Code. The appointment of
probationary firefighter to firefighter of the-firefighter becomes permanent when the probationary firefighter
he-or-she has successfully completed the one-year probationary period.

(b) While a person an-individual is in the status of recruit trainee or probationary firefighter, the chief
may terminate or temporarily suspend such person an-individualfor-cause, without right to any hearing
before the merit board.

Sec. 252-204. Retirement.
A member of the Indianapolis fire department shall be required to retire from the department consistent
with state and federal guidelines or upon the member's his-or-her failure to meet minimum medical/fitness

standards adopted by the department. Such minimum medical and fitness medical/itness standards shall
be job-related and established with the assistance of an independent consultant to the department.

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2021

=== 257-2021 proposal document, page 8 of 20 (OCR) ===
G.O. No. 33, 2021
Page 8

Sec. 252- 205. Rules and regulations of the Indianapolis fire department.

(a) Within the limits of this Code, the ‘chief, shall prescribe, adopt and put into effect such tules and
regulations for the governance of the Indianapolis fire department as, from time to time, he or she deems
appropriate. Within the limits of this Code, the chief, with the approval of the merit board, shall establish a
classification of ranks, grades and positions in the department and shall designate the authority and
responsibilities of each rank, grade and position. The chief shall have authority to assign or reassign. any
member of the department to serve at any department worksite, within the limits of the Code, and to perform
such duties as he or she shall designate, provided such grade and assignment results in no decrease in
the firefighter's merit rank, and provided the firefighter's minimum salary is commensurate with. the
firefighter’s his-o-her merit rank. The chief shall be authorized to make maximum use of civilian employees
in any position in the department so as to release firefighters to perform essential departmental functions.

(b) Consistent with the terms of section 252-206(a), the chief, in consultation sensulation-with the mayor,
may establish a position classification system and a scale of compensation for the various firefighters in the
department. The compensation so fixed shall be based on the rank held by the firefighter and the special
technical competence of the job assignment of the firefighter. Any position pay granted to a firefighter shall
remain in effect only while such firefighter is in such position. The scale of compensation shall be required
to apply uniformly to all firefighters’ merit rank and minimum salary commensurate with the rank.

Sec. 252-206. Merit promotion system.

(a) There shall be a merit promotion system that shall be administered in accordance with rules and
regulations adopted by the merit board. This merit promotion system shall apply to all promotions to the
ranks of lieutenant, captain and battalion chief. it shall not apply to the appointment of the chief by the
mayor or to the appointment-of assistant chief, deputy chiefs, ion chiefs and shift commanders by the
chief. Within the limits of this Code, the chief, with the approval of the merit board, shall set standards for
promotion in conformity with the most widely approved standards of comparabie fire departments and-shall
establish reasonable prerequisites of training, education and experience for each rank, grade and position
in the department.

(b) The following eligibility requirements are established for all individuals seeking promotion within the
Indianapolis fire department:

(1) Private to lieutenant: To be- eligible to participate in the process for promotion to the rank of

lieutenant, an individual must have completed five (5) years of continuous service as a member of
the department, which time period shail include an individual's service as a full-time, paid member

of a.fire department that has-been-consolidated-into-the- department. To be eligible for promotion to

the rank of lieutenant, an individual must have completed eight (8) years of continuous service as

a member of the department, which time period shall include the firefighter's service

as a full-time, paid member of a fire department that has-been consolidated inte-the-deparntment.

(2) Lieutenant to captain: To be eligible for promotion to the rank of captain, an individual must have
completed three (3) years in the rank of lieutenant and have completed eleven (11) years of
continuous service as a member of the department, which time periods shall include an individual" S
service as a full-time, paid member of a fire department

department.

(3) Captain to battalion chief: To be eligible for promotion to the rank of battalion chief, an individual
must have completed three (3) years in the rank of captain and have completed fourteen (14) years
of continuous service asa member of the department, which time periods shall include an
individual's service as a full-time, paid member of a fire department that has been-censelidated into

the-depariment.

In determining years of service for promotion eligibility to the next merit rank, all time served from the
candidate's date of appointment shall be considered. However, if a firefighter is demoted, no time served
in a rank prior to the demotion shall be considered in determining years of service for promotion eligibility.
The merit board shall resolve any issue relating to the determination of a firefighter's years of service. A
member shall be promoted only to the next highest rank.

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2021

=== 257-2021 proposal document, page 9 of 20 (OCR) ===
G.O. No. 33, 2021
Page 9

(c) The merit board, in conjunction with the chief, shall establish process phases and procedures for
use: in selecting candidates for. promotion. to the various ranks. The board -may.use the.services of:
professional consultants from outside the department to assist in developing and administering the process.
The process phases shall be established in conformity with standard psychometric procedures, federal and
state guidelines relating to selection methods, equal employment opportunity laws, and generally accepted
standards for fire departments. Weightings of the components of the process shall be established by the
department, using the services of professional consultants prior to the inception of the process with the
acceptance of the merit board. The process may include, but is not limited to, such phases as a written
examination, structured interviews, performance evaluations, and/or assessment center techniques, as
structured to accommodate the various rank levels.

(d) Final eligibility lists prepared as the result of a promotion process shall be in effect for three (3)
years or until a new eligibility list for the next process is final, whichever occurs sooner. A new promotion
process shall be initiated by the department no later than twenty-four (24) months after a final promotion
list is certified by the merit board.

(e) Promotions shall be made by the chief with the approval of the merit board. Such promotions shall
be made to position vacancies identified by the chief and designated to be filled by the chief. In making final
elections for promotion, the chief shall promote the candidate who, in the opinion of the chief and merit
board, is best qualified for the position based on such considerations as cumulative score on the merit
selections procedures, the qualifications of the candidate for promotion, and community and legal
obligations cf the department and the city. The merit board shall establish guidelines, policies and
procedures for the administration of the promotion process, and such guidelines, policies and procedures
shall be posted in all department work sites and a copy provided to the public safety committee of the city-
county council prior to the inception of the process.

(f) All promotions to the ranks of lieutenant, captain and battalion chief shall be made in accordance
with this merit system, without regard to the candidate's political party. preference or activities. Any member
of the department who, personally or through any other person, solicits any member of the merit board to
favor their his-or-her promotion shall be thereby rendered ineligible for any such promotion.

(g) The chief of fire may make staff appointments in the suppression division: for positions requiring
special certifications, skills and/or training. These positions may include, but are not limited to, EMS duty
officers and fire-investigators. These appointments shall not be made to circumvent the department's
established seniority bidding or merit systems that shall be adhered to in compliance with department
general orders and labor agreements.

(h) In instances in which the officer assigned to an apparatus or station is temporarily absent due to
illness, vacation, training or other reason, a firefighter may be temporarily assigned to fulfill the
responsibilities of the absent officer.

(i) Upon a consolidation of a fire department into the Indianapolis fire department pursuant to IC 36-
3-1-6.1 that results in the addition of a new battalion, any merit captain who was acting as a battalion
commander for the fire department shall be allowed to remain as an acting battalion commander if he or
she participates in the next process for promotion to battalion chief and successfully completes all
components of that promotion process. If the acting battalion commander chooses not to-participate in or
does not successfully complete all components of that promotion process, he or she shall immediately
vacate the acting battalion commander position. Once a promotion list is certified by the merit board, an
acting battalion commander, who has successfully completed all components of the promotion process,
shall immediately vacate that position and return to the merit rank of captain, unless he orshe is promoted
to battalion chief in the first group of promotions made from the certified promotion list.

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2021

=== 257-2021 proposal document, page 10 of 20 (OCR) ===
G.O. No. 33, 20214
Page 10

Sec. 252-207. Evaluations.
The chief, with the approval of the merit board and with the assistance of the personnel division branch,
shall establish a system for the evaluation of the performance of -each member of the department. The
personnel division branch shail maintain a record of all evaluations of each member under this system.

Sec. 252-208. Discipline.

(a) The chief shall have the ultimate authority to discipline all members of the Indianapolistre
department,subject to the authority of the merit board. However, that authority may be delegated by the
chief in accordance with the provisions contained in this section. The authority of the chief to discipline shalt
be subject only to the firefighter's right of appeal to the fire merit board as provided herein.

(b) All disciplinary matters within the department shall be based on one (1) or more of the following
infractions:

(1) Violation of any rule, regulation, or order of the department;
(2) Any breach of discipline;

(3) Insubordination;

(4) Neglect of duty;

(5) Immoral conduct;

(6) Conduct unbecoming a firefighter;

(7) Substandard perfarmance;

(8) Violation, with the determination by the chief, of any federal, state or iocal law; and

(9). Failure to cooperate or be truthful.

(c) Afirefighter may be placed on leave with pay for up to thirty (30) calendar days by the chief pending
determination of final disciplinary action. Such leave with pay shall be considered a duty status and not a
punishment.

(d) The delegation by the chief of the authority to discipline shall not exceed the following:

(1) Any deputy or assistant chief may suspend any subordinate firefighter for up to a total of eighty (80)

working hours, with or without pay, which suspension shall be reviewed by the disciplinary board

of battalion chiefs, and ultimately reviewed by the chief. The suspended firefighter may be subject
to reinstatement with pay by the chief at any time.

(2) Any division chief may suspend any subordinate firefighter for up to.a total of forty-eight (48)
working hours, with or without pay, which suspension shall be reviewed by the disciplinary board
of battalion chiefs, and ultimately reviewed by the chief. The suspended firefighter may be subject
to reinstatement with pay by the chief at any time.

(3) Any battalion chief may suspend any subordinate firefighter for up to a total of twenty-four (24)
working hours, with or without pay, which suspension shall be reviewed by the disciplinary board
of battalion chiefs, and ultimately reviewed by the chief. The suspended firefighter may be subject
to reinstatement with pay by the chief at any time.

(e) Firefighters who are classified by the department as exempt executive, administrative or
professional employees pursuant to the provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act are not subject to unpaid
disciplinary suspensions other than for violations of safety rules of major significance unless the suspension
is for the period of an entire workweek or a specified number of full workweeks.

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2021

=== 257-2021 proposal document, page 11 of 20 (OCR) ===
G.O. No. 33, 2021

Page 11

(f} A disciplinary board of battalion chiefs, referred to in this section as the disciplinary board, shall
_assist the chief.in departmental disciplinary matters: The board shail be subordinate and-advisory io. the
chief and shail consist of three (3) member firefighters with the permanent merit rank of battalion chief.
Board members shall be selected at random and shall serve as a board for a term not to exceed six (8)
months. A new board shail be impaneled every six (6) months. No battalion chief shall serve as a member
of the board in consecutive six-month periods.

(1) Following the suspension of a firefighter by the chief for a period greater than eighty (80) working
hours or any suspension of a firefighter by an assistant chief, the chief shall appoint a firefighter to
gather all of the pertinent facts and to investigate the event surrounding the suspension. The results
of that investigation shall be reported to the chief, to the disciplinary board and to the chairman of
the personnel division branch for inclusion in the firefighter's personnel record. The chief, or the
chief's designee may cause the firefighter to be brought before the discipli inary board for a hearing
based upon any charges. Alternately, the chief may also cause the
firefighter to appear directly before the merit board for a hearing.

(2) Any firefighter subject to a hearing before the disciplinary board shall be notified in writing of the
charges and of the time and date of the hearing. Such notice must be given by the board at least
five (5) days prior to such hearing. In addition, the firefighter has the right to have witnesses
subpoenaed by the-disciplinary board to testify in the-firefighter’s his-or-her behalf upon forty-eight
(48) hours' advance notice to the board. by providing }the-firefighter-requeste-that-witnesses be

subpoenaed, _he_or- she-shall provide a list of such witnesses to the board and to the deputy chief
supervising chairman_ef the personnel division branch, who shall prepare and deliver the

subpoenas on behalf of the board. All testimony at this hearing shall be under oath. Any firefighter,

-or other department employee. tes @ appearing at this hearing,-whether-as-an-accused-oras-a
witness, shall cooperate fully with the disciplinary board and answer all questions truthfully and
directly. In such hearings, and pursuant to departmental policy, the subject firefighter shall have
the right to have legal counsel.

(3) The hearing before the disciplinary board shall be conducted .in accordance with written directives
of the chief. The disciplinary board shall, by a majority vote, make a finding of sustained or not
sustained guilty-or-net-guilty and reduce It to writing. Ifthe finding is sustained guilty, the board shall
also make a its recommendations of fer appropriate disciplinary action. punishment The findings
and recommendations shall then be referred to the chief or the chief's his-or-her designee for his
determination and shall be made available to the subject accused firefighter.

(4) After receiving the findings and recommendations, the chief or the chief's designee may, with or
without hearings, either concur with the disciplinary board or pray reverse the board in full or in part.
After making a his-orher determination, the chief or the chiefs designee may:

a. Suspend the firefighter without pay for up to six (6) months. If the suspension does not
exceed a total of eighty (80) working hours, suspension shall be without the right of appeal to the
fire merit board. That portion of any suspension exceeding a total of eighty (80) working hours may
‘be appealed to the fire merit board within thirty (30) calendar-days;

b. Demote the firefighter in rank; however, any demotion. may be appealed to the fire merit
board within thirty (30) calendar days;

c. Recommend to the merit board that the firefighter be terminated, in which case the merit
board shall consider such a recommendation in the same manner as an appeal of a chief's
determination for suspension or demotion;

d. Reprimand the firefighter verbally or in writing;

e. Reinstate with pay any firefighter who has been previously suspended without pay.

(5) A copy of the findings of fact and recommendations of the disciplinary board as well as the chiefs
determination shall be made a permanent part of the subject firefighter's personnel record. A-Copy

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2021

=== 257-2021 proposal document, page 12 of 20 (OCR) ===
G.O. No. 33, 2021
Page 12

(g) Appeals:io the merit board shaii.be nandled.in the foliowing manner: eae

(1) Any member of the department may appeal the following determinations to the fire merit board
within thirty (30) calendar days of such determination:

a. That portion of any suspension without pay exceeding eighty (80) working hours;
b. Any demotion in rank.
c. A recommendation of termination.

(2) The hearing before the merit board shall be an administrative hearing, shall be de novo and shall
be a hearing of record. The evidence before the merit board shall consist of the findings of fact and
recommendations of the disciplinary board of battalion chiefs if such disciplinary board is convened,
the written charges and the determination of the fire chief upon those charges, and any other
evidence requested by the merit board, presented by the subject aggrieved firefighter, or presented
by the chief.

(3) Any firefighter appealing any decision of the chief shall be given notice at least fourteen (14)
calendar days prior to the hearing before the merit board.

(4) The appealing firefighter may be represented by legal counsel before the merit board, and the chief
shall be represented by the corporation counsel or the chief's his-er-her designee.

(5) The merit board may fully or partially affirm or completely reverse any portion of the chief's
determination that is appealable. In the case of a demotion, the merit board may demote a firefighter
only one (1) permanent rank at any one (1) time. The merit board may order any firefighter
reinstated with pay for any appealabie suspension. In addition, the merit board may remand the
action for further review by the chief.

(6) After hearing the evidence, the merit board shall make a finding by majority voice and reduce its
findings and decision to-writing. A copy of the findings and decision shall be forwarded to the subject
firefighter in~question and to the chief and shall. become a permanent part of the firefighter's
personnel record.

(h) For the purpose of all hearings before the chief, the disciplinary board of battalion chiefs, and the
merit board, each respectively shall have subpoena power as may be enforceable by application to the
Marion Ceircuit or Ssuperior Ceourt.

(i) Either party may, following a decision of the merit board, file a verified petition in the Marion Circuit
or Superior Court as may be allowed.
petition for review shail be filed within thirty (30) days of the-written decision of the merit board. Within thirty
(30) calendar days after the filing of the petition for review, the petitioner shall file a true and complete copy
of the transcript of the hearing and the board's written findings with the court. Upon request, the board shall
prepare the transcript for the petitioner. The board shall- charge the petitioner the reasonable cost of
preparing the transcript for transmittal to the court. An extension of time in which to file the transcript may
shall be granted by the court for good cause shown. Inability. to obtain the transcript from the board wit
the time permitted by this section is good cause. Failure to file the transcript within the time permitted by
this subsection, including any extension period ordered by the court, is cause for dismissal of the petition
for review by the court, on its own motion, or on petition by the department Gity-of indianapolis. The court,
without jury, shall review the record and render its decision as in other administrative reviews. Fhe -clerk-of

firefighter Either party may appeal the decision of the court.

Sec. 252-301. Holidays; additional pay.

(a) Suppression division. Because of the increased pressures of the work of the department and the
around-the-clock requirements for members of the suppression division, the council hereby grants to such
members additional pay according to in-accerdance-with the collective bargaining agreement between the
city and the Indianapolis Metropolitan Professional Fire Fighters, Local 416 for working on any of the
following holidays: stated in the collective bargaining agreement as may exist and change from time to time.

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2021

=== 257-2021 proposal document, page 13 of 20 (OCR) ===
G.O. No. 33, 2021
Page 13

(b) Non-suppression division. Members of the non-suppression division of the department shall be
entitled to the folewing-days-as holidays: established by Sec. 291-206 of the Code.

Members of the non-suppression division shall receive their regular rate of pay for holidays on which they
are not required to work. Members who are required to work for eight (8) hours or more on a holiday shall
receive additional pay for that holiday at the rates set forth for members of the suppression division in the
collective bargaining agreement between the city and the Indianapolis Metropolitan Professional Fire
Fighters, Local 416 Members who are required to work less than eight (8) hours on a holiday shall receive
a portion of the additional holiday pay commensurate with the portion of the day worked, but not less than
one-half (7%) of the holiday pay.

Sec. 252-302. Annual leave.

(a) Annual leave for firefighters shall be as stated in the collective bargaining agreement as may exist
GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2021

=== 257-2021 proposal document, page 14 of 20 (OCR) ===
jenuue-sinoy-(oz +) quemp pue-peipuny-oue-uey} Ssory 10H

"SU O} SU] WGI SHUEYS pue

pL beg

‘

202 €€ ON “OD

=== 257-2021 proposal document, page 15 of 20 (OCR) ===
G.O. No. 33, 2021
Page 15

4\(b) Upon separation of employment by reason of death, or retirement_under circumstances such
that the member would be eligible for retirement under state law, or in the event of layoff, if such layoff. was
anticipated to last longer than six (6) months, a member will be entitled to compensation for accumulated
annual leave at their daily rate of compensation.

{a\(c) Howleave-shall betaken. Annual leave shall be taken in increments of not less than one (1)
duty day, unless approved by the chief or chief's his-orher-designee. For purposes of this section, duty day
means twenty-four (24) hours for members of the department assigned to the suppression division, and
eight (8) hours for all other members of the department.

Sec. 252-303. Sick leave.

(a) Any active member of the Indianapolis fire department hired on or before December 31, 1984, or
after January 1, 1993, or any member who is hired between these two (2) dates and who makes an election
pursuant to section 252-303(d) who is unable to perform the member's duties of his-or-her employment by
reason of sickness, accident or injury is entitled to not less than ninety (90) calendar days’ sick leave with
full pay in a calendar year, or for the period of such incapacity, should said period be less than ninety (90}
days. In the case of an officer incurring a sickness, accident or injury in the direct line of duty, the chief, with
the approval of the merit board, may, upon written application of the officer, extend paid sick leave. Before-
any extension may be rendered, a medical doctor or psychologist retained by the department must certify
the member unfit for active duty. If the member is unable to return to work, he or she shall apply for a
disability pension pursuant to state law. The merit board shall establish guidelines, policies and procedures
for the administration of paid sick leave and extensions thereof.

(b) Any active member of the department hired between December 31, 1984, and January 1, 1993,
and who does not make an election to opt out pursuant to section 252-303(d), shall receive sick leave as
follows:

(1) On-duty injury. Any such member who is unable to perform the member's duties of his/her
employment by reason of sickness, accident or injury incurred in the direct line of duty as certified
by a medical doctor or psychologist retained by the department shail be entitled to such leave with
full pay for the period of such incapacity; however such sick leave period shall not exceed ninety
(90) calendar days in a calendar year. The chief, with the approval of the merit board, may, upon
written application of the officer, extend paid sick leave. Before any extension may be rendered, a
medical doctor or psychologist retained by the department must certify the member unfit for active
duty. If the member is unable to return to work, he or she shall apply for a disability pension pursuant
to state law. The merit board shall establish guidelines, policies and procedures for the
administration of paid sick leave and extensions thereof.

(2) Non-duty injury.
a. Definitions.
GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2021

=== 257-2021 proposal document, page 16 of 20 (OCR) ===
G.O. No. 33, 2021
Page 16

- i. o"Siek.ieave*-‘means time off granted-a firefighter whose illness, accident, injury or-disability:.
prevents him or her from performing duties directed by the department. Sick leave is intended
to provide relief from loss of pay in cases of absence from work due to established incapacity
to perform assigned duties, as defined and directed by the department, but is not to be regarded
as an optional leave right.

a

"Reasonable evidence" means a certificate from a medical doctor licensed to practice medicine
or a licensed psychologist and retained by the department that the subject firefighter -is
incapable of performing assigned duties as defined and directed by the department. Before
granting or continuing sick leave with pay, the department may require evidence that the
member employee is actually sick or disabled.

b. Accrual.

1. Upon commencement of employment, firefighters shall have a bank of ninety-six (96) hours of
sick leave for nonduty illnesses, accidents or injuries. Upon completion of one (1) year of
employment, firefighters shall accrue sick leave at the rate of eight (8) hours per month, ninety-
six (96) hours per year.

2. Those firefighters who are starting to work on or before the fifteenth day of the month shall
have their account credited with a full month's accrual of sick time on the first day of the month
following the month in which they were hired.

3. Those firefighters who are starting to work on or after the sixteenth day of the month shall have
their account credited with a full month's accrual of sick time on the first day of the second
month after they were hired.

4. Sick leave time will only accrue if a firefighter works or is paid for more than one-half (%) the
month; no firefighter shall continue to accrue sick leave or other fringe benefits while receiving
pension disal

c. Separation from employment. Accrued sick leave will not be paid upon termination, except as
follows: Upon separation from employment by reason of death, or retirement under circumstances
such that the firefighter ermpleyee would be eligible for retirement benefits under state law, or in the
event of a layoff, if such layoff was anticipated to last longer than six (6) months, an firefighter
employee will be entitled to compensation or accrued accumulated sick leave at one-half (%) the
firefighter’s his-orher regular daily rate of compensation.

d. Carryover. Accrued sick leave may be carried over from year to year.

(c) Compliance with departmental policy. Ail use of sick leave due to sickness, accidents and injuries
must comply with departmental rules, regulations, orders and standard operating procedures.

(1) Unearned leave. Sick leave cannot be used prior to accrual and cannot be earned while on any
leave without pay status.

(2) Justification. The burden of proof rests with the firefighter to demonstrate to the department that
sick leave is justifiable. The department may require a medical certificate or other evidence of
illness as requested. Sick leave is only to be used for personal illness or injury.

(3) Sick leave abuse. In the case of sick leave abuse, the department may designate such leave-as
vacation leave, leave without pay, or as grounds for disciplinary actions, including dismissal.

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2021

=== 257-2021 proposal document, page 17 of 20 (OCR) ===
G.O. No. 33, 2021
Page 17

(4) Charging sick leave. Sick leave may only be taken in eight-hour increments; provided, that those
--firefighters who work on.a.tweniy-four-hour on/forty-eight-hour off shift may only take-sick ieave.in
twenty-four-hour increments.
(5) Accrual of other paid leave. Vacation days shall accrue to firefighters while on paid sick leave.

Sec. 252-304. Perfect attendance leave.

(a) Effective January 1, 1994, those active members of the Indianapolis fire department assigned to
the non-suppression division shall receive one (1) eight-hour perfect attendance leave day for each
calendar quarter in which no sick leave is used in addition to any vacation provided thereto.

(b) Perfect attendance leave days are noncumulative and shall be awarded at the pleasure of the chief,
so long as the granting of such leave does not necessitate the use of supplementary manpower nor incur.
additional costs to the department. During declared emergencies, all leave days, including compensatory
perfect attendance days, may be canceled for the duration of such emergencies.

Sec. 252-305. Military leave.

Military leave shall be granted in accordance with applicable state and federal law. Notwithstanding the
provisions of section 201 21 0, firefighters

dred forty- -four (144) work

shall be granted a maximum of one hun
hours of paid military leave in a calendar year.

Sec. 252-306. Reserved.

Editor's note(s)—G.O. 139, 1996, § 4, adopted Sept. 30, 1996, repealed § 23-76 of the 1975 Code,
relative to F.L.S.A. Day and bonus day, from which § 252-306Editor's note(s)— derived.

Sec. 252-307. Death Bereavement leave.

(a). Firefighters in non-suppression division. Upon the death of a parent, child or spouse, an active
firefighter assigned to the non-suppression division will receive a maximum of five (5) eight (8)-hour duty
days leave with pay. Upon the death of a brother, sister, stepmother, stepfather, stepson, stepdaughter
stepbrother, stepsister, father-in-law, mother-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, grandmother,
grandfather, grandson and granddaughter, or other relative who was residing with the firefighter, a firefighter
will receive a maximum of three (3) working days leave with pay. The chief has discretion to grant three (3)
eight (8)-hour duty days for leave to be charged against any earned leave time. for a death of someone
other than those listed above.

(b) Firefighters in suppression division.

(1) Upon the death of a parent, child or spouse, an active firefighter assigned to the suppression
division will receive a maximum.of two (2) twenty-four-hour duty days off with pay.

(2) Upon the death of a brother, sister, stepmother, stepfather, stepson, stepdaughter, stepbrother,
stepsister, father-in-law, mother-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, grandfather, grandmother,
grandson or granddaughter, or other relative who was residing with the firefighter, a firefighter
assigned to the suppression division shall receive a maximum of one (1) twenty-four-hour duty day
off with pay. The chief has the discretion to grant one (1) day for leave to be charged against any
earned leave time for a death of someone other than those listed above.

(c) General: Documentation of the death, such as a death certificate or article, may be required from the

firefighter. Additional time off to be charged to earned leave time if available, or without pay, may be granted
at the discretion of the chief.

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2021

=== 257-2021 proposal document, page 18 of 20 (OCR) ===
G.O. No. 33, 2021
Page 18

Sec. 252-308. Pension benefit payable to the e surviving children of deceased members of the 1937
firefighters’:-pension fund. ¥

Effective January 1, 1985, and as authorized by IC 36-8-7-12.1(b)(2)(B), surviving children of deceased
members of the 1937 firefighters' pension fund shall receive a benefit equal to twenty (20) percent of the
salary of a fully paid first class firefighter in the Consolidated City of Indianapolis at the time of the payment
of the benefit.

Sec. 252-309. Hours of work.

Effective October 5, 1996, firefighters assigned to the suppression division shall be scheduled by the
Indianapolis fire department to work an average of one hundred forty-four (144) hours in a twenty-one-day
work period. Firefighters assigned to non-suppression shall be scheduled by the department.to work an
average of one hundred twenty (120) hours in a twenty-one-day work period.

SECTION 2. The expressed or implied repeal or amendment by this ordinance of any other ordinance or part
of any other ordinance does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred, or proceedings begun
prior to the effective date of this ordinance. Those rights, liabilities, and proceedings are continued, and
penalties shall be imposed and enforced under the repealed or amended ordinance as if this ordinance had
rot been adopted.

SECTION 3. Should any provision (section, paragraph, sentence, clause, or any other portion) of this
ordinance be declared by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, the remaining provision
or provisions shall not be affected, if and only if such remaining provisions can, without the invalid provision or
provisions, be given the effect intended by the Council in adopting this ordinance. To this end the provisions
of this ordinance are severable.

SECTION 4. This ordinance shail be in effect from and after its passage by the Council and compliance with
ind. Code § 36-3-4-14.

The foregoing was passed by the City-County Council this 13° day of September, 2021, at 8:53 p.m.

ATTEST:

Pv hag has idgat; City-County Council

SaRita Hughes
Clerk, City-County Council

Presented by me to the Mayor this 15' day of September, ——_

SaRita Hughes
Clerk, City-County Council

i

J h H. Hogsett, Mayor

Approved and signed by me this i) kale al day of September, 2021.

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2021

=== 257-2021 proposal document, page 19 of 20 (OCR) ===
G.O. No. 33, 2021
Page 19

STATE OF INDIANA, MARION COUNTY)

we

CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS

|, SaRita Hughes, Clerk of the City-County Council Indianapolis, Marion County, Indiana, do hereby certify
the above and foregoing is a full, true, and complete copy of Proposal No. 257, 2021, a Proposal for a
GENERAL ORDINANCE passed by the City-County Council on the 13" day of September, 2021, by a vote
of 23 YEAS and_0 NAYS and was retitled General Ordinance No. 33, 2021, which was signed by the Mayor
on the 2 f ar day of September, 2021, and now remains on file and-on record in my Office.

WITNESS my hand and the official seal of the City of Indianapolis, Indiana, this oa ay of September,

2021.
ESP haghe
SaRita Hughes
Clerk, City-County Councit
(SEAL)

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2021

=== 257-2021 proposal document, page 20 of 20 (OCR) ===
Indianapolis City - County Council RCS# 271
2020-2023
2020-2023

9/13/2021 8:53 PM

Proposal: PROP21- 257 Ordinance: G.O. 33 (PASSED)
Sponsor: Mascari
Action: Adopt
Committee: Public Safety and Crim. Just.

Yea: 23 Nay: 0 Abstain: 0 Not Voting: 1 Excused: 1

Yea - 23
Adamson Dilk Jackson Oliver
Bain Evans-E Jones Osili
Barth Evans-J Larrison Potis
Boois Graves Lewis Ray
Brown Gray Mascari Robinson
Carlino Hart McCormick

Nay - 0

Abstain - 0

Excused - 1
Annee

Not Voting - 1

Mowery
