=== 287-2024 proposal document, page 1 of 4 (OCR) ===
CITY-COUNTY GENERAL RESOLUTION NO. 41, 2024
Proposal No. 287, 2024

PROPOSAL FOR A GENERAL RESOLUTION to create an Investigative Committee that contracts with an
independent law and/or human resources firm or firms to thoroughly examine and investigate allegations
against members of the Hogsett administration and recommend policy changes and further action to
address gaps in human resources policy and code; and to recommend further immediate action regarding
sexual harassment training and workplace relationships.

WHEREAS, recent media coverage detailing the sexual harassment and abuse experienced by women
while employed by the Hogsett administration and campaign is unconscionable; and

WHEREAS, the City-County Council (Council) condemns these actions unconditionally, and are
grateful to the brave survivors for coming forward; and

WHEREAS, under no circumstances should anyone employed by city agencies feel threatened,
harassed, or intimidated. All citizens of Indianapolis should have confidence that city leaders are taking
these matters seriously and acting decisively to protect employees who come forward; and

WHEREAS, in order to ensure this type of abuse does not and cannot happen again, the Council should
use every power at its disposal to understand where and how systems failed, including through powers
granted in Indiana Code 36-3-4-24 and Section 151-33 of the Revised Code; and

WHEREAS, the Council is committed to working to determine the necessary changes to the city’s
policies and systems to ensure a safe work environment for all employees, now and into the future; and

WHEREAS, the Council agrees with longstanding human resources best practices that a consensual
sexual or romantic relationship can never exist between a supervisor and a subordinate due to imbalance
in power in the workplace; and

WHEREAS, the Council’s priority is to create a workplace where every employee feels secure, valued,
and supported; and

WHEREAS, the Council is focused on implementing improvements that will bring greater accounta
for all leaders, whether elected, appointed, or hired; now, therefore:

BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA:

SECTION 1. The Indianapolis City-County Council (Council) hereby creates an Investigative Committee
(Committee) to examine the allegations made by individuals while employed by the Hogsett administration
(Administration) and campaign. The Committee will also evaluate and ratify proposed changes to human
resources policies including but not limited to creating a separate branch of human resources from the
Administration that explicitly addresses sexual harassment and other discrimination_related complaints,
creating an anonymous reporting system, and strengthening mental health support through the Employee
Assistance Program (EAP) and additional behavioral health services.

SECTION 2. The Committee shall hire an independent law or human resources firm (Independent Firm) or
more than one firm to thoroughly examine and investigate allegations of sexual harassment and abuse by
members of the Administration and assess how the Administration addressed these allegations; provide
recommendations to remedy policy failures as a result of gaps in the Revised Code and the City’s human
resources structure and policies; and provide recommendations to remedy personnel failures related to any
allegations applying guidelines established through the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission and
recommending actions for reprimands, terminations, and/or criminal referrals.

SECTION 3. An Independent Firm is defined as a firm that has no business, political, or financial ties to the
City of Indianapolis, the Hogsett Administration and campaign, the Council and the twenty-five (25)
members of the Council, and that has a demonstrated expertise in investigating sexual harassment and
misconduct allegations within the workplace. Upon the conclusion of the investigation, the Independent
Firm shall prepare a report that details the findings from the investigation, recommends policy changes,
and provides additional information it deems germane to advising the Committee on any further action.

GENERAL RESOLUTION RECORD 2024

=== 287-2024 proposal document, page 2 of 4 (OCR) ===
G.R. No. 41, 2024
Page 2

After receiving and reviewing the report, the Committee will recommend further action to be taken by the
Council.

SECTION 4. The Committee will be composed of five (5) members from the majority party and two (2)
members from the minority party. The members of the committee shall be appointed by the Committee on
Committees no later than seventy-two (72) hours after passage of this General Resolution. The chair of the
Committee shall be appointed by a simple majority of the members of the Committee.

SECTION 5. The Committee shall meet no later than twenty-one (21) days after passage of this General
Resolution. The Committee shall meet at least once a month, until the investigation concludes. Additional
meetings shall be called upon the call of the chair or a simple majority of its members. Four (4) members
of the Committee shall constitute a quorum. The Committee shall submit a tentative timeline of its work to
the Council within fourteen (14) days of its first meeting. The Committee shall submit a tentative timeline of
its work to the Council within fourteen (14) days of its first meeting. The Committee shall provide quarterly
updates to the timeline to the Council. The Independent Firm shall provide an interim report to the
Committee no later than February 28, 2025. All deadlines may be amended by the Council at the
recommendation of the Committee.

SECTION 6. The Committee is granted express authority to subpoena witnesses and documents, both
electronic and physical, as deemed necessary, in accordance with Indiana Code 36-3-4-24 and Section
151-33 of the Revised Code. Subpoenas may be requested only by a simple majority of the members of
the Committee.

SECTION 7. The Committee shall refrain from obtaining any identifying information of a victim. However,
the Committee shall ensure that no identifying information of a victim is disclosed to any member of the
public, elected official, or employee of the consolidated city. This includes names, personal identifiers, and
any information that could reasonably lead to the identification of a victim. The Committee shall implement
strict privacy protocols for securing and handling of sensitive information. The Indiana Access to Public
Records Act (Indiana Code 5-14-3) shall apply to the Committee and its work products.

SECTION 8. The Council recommends a further General Ordinance modifying Revised Code Section 293-
304 to include all city county employees in an annual mandatory sexual harassment training and to amend
and add, where appropriate, a requirement that all workplace relationships be disclosed to human
resources through a consensual relationship agreement.

SECTION 9. All funds shall be made available to carry out sections of this resolution.

The foregoing was passed by the City-County Council this 9 day of September, 2024, at 8:37p.m.

ATTEST: Wit
Vop Osili
] 1 p s . President, City-County Council
Yulonda Winfield

Clerk, City-County Council
Presented by me to the Mayor this 12°" day of September, 2024

Lulorate. BAapiilol

Yulonda Winfield
Clerk, City-County Council

GENERAL RESOLUTION RECORD 2024

=== 287-2024 proposal document, page 3 of 4 (OCR) ===
G.R. No. 41, 2024
Page 3

; ae
Approved and signed by me this day of September, 2024,

Gs A Lhe

seph H. Hogsett, Mayor

STATE OF INDIANA, MARION COUNTY)
) SS:
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS )

|, Yulonda Winfield, Clerk of the City-County Council, Indianapolis, Marion County, Indiana, do hereby certify
the above and foregoing is a full, true, and complete copy of Proposal No. 287, 2024, a Proposal for a
GENERAL RESOLUTION passed by the City-County Council on the 9t day of September, 2024, by a vote
of 22 YEAS and,1 NAY, and was retitled General Resolution No. 41, 2024, which was signed by the Mayor
on the (3 He day of September, 2024, and now remains on file and on record in my office.

WITNESS my hand and the official seal of the City of Indianapolis, Indiana, this [ Zh say of September,
2024.

Yulonda Winfield o
Clerk, City-County Council

(SEAL)

GENERAL RESOLUTION RECORD 2024

=== 287-2024 proposal document, page 4 of 4 (OCR) ===
Indianapolis City - County Council RCS# 346

2020-2023
2024-2027
9/9/2024 8:37 PM
Proposal: PROP-24 287 Ordinance: G.R. 41 (PASSED)
Sponsor: MCCORMICK, BROWN
Action: Adopt
Committee: Rules
Yea: 22 Nay: 1 Abstain: 1 Not Voting: 0 Excused: 1
Yea - 22
Allen Brown-J Jones Nielsen
Annee Carlino Lewis Osili
Bain Delaney Mascari Perkins
Barth Dilk McCormick Roberts
Boots Graves Mowery Robinson
Brown-A Hart
Nay - 1
Gibson
Abstain - 1
Cahill
Excused - 1
Evans

Excused - 0
