=== 287-2021 proposal document, page 1 of 9 (OCR) ===
CITY-COUNTY GENERAL ORDINANCE NO. 38, 2021
Proposal No. 287, 2021

PROPOSAL FOR A GENERAL ORDINANCE to make certain changes to the compensation and personnel
ordinances governing some City-County employees;

WHEREAS, the city controller desires to provide for annual consideration of changes to the employee
salary classification schedule and employee compensation in accordance with a formula for a cost of living
adjustment (COLA); and

WHEREAS, the city controller desires to modify the incentive pay program for covered employees
and add a new bonus award program; and

WHEREAS, the city controller desires to allow for flexibility in the payout of benefit leave when a two
(2) week notice is not provided and to prohibit the payout of accrued benefit leave for covered City-
County employees who are terminated for gross misconduct; and

WHEREAS, the city controlier desires to allow part-time employees to accrue pro-rated benefit
leave; and

WHEREAS, the city controller desires to make clarifying changes to the holiday ordinance provisions
on leave where non-traditional work schedules or requirements are in place; and

WHEREAS, the city controller desires to provide paid parental leave to enable employees to care for
and bond with a newborn or a newly adopted or newly placed child; now, therefore

BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA

SECTION 1. Section 192-302 of the “Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County” hereby is
amended by-the addition of the language that is underscored, to read as follows:

Sec. 192-302. —Annual budget

(a) For the calendar year 2003 budgets and thereafter, for each item appropriating funds for payment
for "personal services”, the item shall specify the total appropriation, including fringe benefits, the number
of empioyees authorized expressed in terms of full time equivalents, and the "salary classification
schedule” under which the compensation of each employee shall be determined.

(b) In preparing the annual budget, the Controller may include compensation increases consistent
with a positive-cost of living adjustment (COLA) formula as set out in Sec. 192-304, for those employees
not covered by a-collective bargaining agreement.

SECTION 2. Section 192-304 of the “Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County” hereby is amended
by the addition of the language that is underscored, to read as follows:

Sec. 192-304. - Modification of salary classification schedule.

(a) The salary classification schedule may be modified by adoption of a fiscal ordinance and such
change may be included in an ordinance making additional appropriations.

(b) The Controller shall apply a cost of living adjustment (COLA) to the salary classification schedules
promulgated by the human resources division in the annual budget ordinance. The COLA formula will be
calculated by taking the percentage change in the Consumer Price Index for urban wage earners-and
clerical workers from the second quarter average of the previous year to the second quarter average for
the current year with a maximum COLA of three percent (3%) per year. The Controller is authorized to
waive or reduce this annual adjustment only if annual revenue projections reduce year-over-year, if applying
the adjustment would result ina decrease in the salary classification schedules, or if other extenuating
circumstances apply. If an annual COLA is waived for any of these reasons, the next calendar year shall
include the adjustment from both the waived year and the regularly calculated year, up to the maximum
permitted COLA of three percent (3%) per year. If application of the COLA formula would result in a negative
adjustment in a given year, the negative COLA that would have applied in that year may be wholly or

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2021

=== 287-2021 proposal document, page 2 of 9 (OCR) ===
G.O. No. 38, 2021
Page 2

partially deducted in the following year from the adjustment that would otherwise be dictated by that
following-year's COLA formula: . .

SECTION 3. Section 291-108 of the "Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County" hereby is amended
by deleting the language that is stricken-through and adding the language that is underlined, to read as follows:

Sec..291-108. - Incentive pay programs and bonus awards.

(a) Incentive pay program

Each department director and each county official responsible for hiring and fixing the salaries in each county
office or agency may develop a program which would provide compensation adjustments consistent with
incentives for productivity-and-such-other measures of success in delivery of programs and services that include
specific goals, including measures of success as may be determined by the department director or appropriate
county official. Exceptional or above-average performance of an employee's regular duties is not considered
to meet the qualifications of an incentive pay program. The incentive pay program will be evaluated over a
twelve (12) month period of time (January through December), Each incentive pay program developed must
be reviewed and approved for consistency, objectivity and availability of funding by the human resources
division of the office of finance and management and the office of corporation counsel. Incentive pay program
submission approval and payout requests must be received by the human resources division. the office of
finance and management, and the office corporation counsel no later than February 1 of the program year.
Upon approval by the aforementioned offices, evaluation of the payout will begin no earlier than January of the
‘year following completion of the program. Payouts shall not exceed $2,000 per employee, occur no sooner
than February and no later than April of the year following the completion of the program, and be disbursed in
the same manner_as the employee’s requiar paycheck.

(b) Bonus awards

Each department director and each county official responsible for hiring and fixing the salaries in each county
office or agency may provide a bonus award to an employee who has demonstrated exceptional meritorious
performance and service that produced a measurable outcome, during the course of their requiar duties, worthy
of recognition and/or celebration. Examples include: completing a significant project ahead of schedule with
results which exceeded expectations, creating a solution toa problem and/or providing exceptional customer
service, or continuing to deliver exceptional service when there was unusually high volume. Bonus awards-may
be provided to active employees with at least six (6) months of employment, in amounts-between $100 to
$2,500. The department's bonus award program and criteria must be documented and records maintained
by the department or agency and approved for budget availability by the office of finance and’ management.
An individual employee may not receive more than $2,500 per calendar year and-will receive the bonus
amount in the same manner_as the employee’s requiar paycheck. The human resources division is
authorized to develop guidance for administration of bonus awards.

SECTION 4. Section 291-203 of the “Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County” hereby is amended
by deleting the language that is stricken-through and adding the language that is underlined, to read as follows:

Sec. 291-203. ~— Benefit leave

(a) Accrual schedule for city employees and applicable county offices whose employees normally are
scheduled to work a forty-hour week.

(1) Employees with less than five (5) continuous years of employment shall accrue benefit leave
monthly at the rate of fourteen and sixty-six hundredths (14.66) hours per month.

(2) Employees who have completed five (5) continuous years of employment but less than ten (10)
continuous years of employment shall accrue benefit leave monthly at the rate of eighteen (18)
hours per month.

(3) Employees who have completed ten (10) years of continuous employment but less than fifteen
(15) years of continuous employment shall accrue benefit leave monthly at the rate of twenty-one
and thirty-three hundredths (21.33) hours per month.

(4) Employees who have completed at least fifteen (15) years of continuous employment shall
accrue benefit leave at the rate of twenty-four and sixty-six hundredths (24.66) hours per month.

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2021

=== 287-2021 proposal document, page 3 of 9 (OCR) ===
(b)

(c)
(d)

(e)

(f)

(9)

(h)

G.O. No. 38, 202%
Page 3

(5) Benefit leave can only accrue if the employee works, or is on a paid leave of absence, or is
receiving worker's compensation (or any combination of the three (3)) for more than haif of the
month.

Accrual schedule for applicable county offices whose employees are normally scheduled to work a
thirty-seven-and-one-half-hour week.

(1) Employees with less than five (6) continuous years of employment shall accrue benefit leave
monthly at the rate of thirteen and seventy-five hundredths (13.75) hours per month.

(2) Employees who have completed five (5) continuous years of employment but less than ten (10)
continuous years of employment shall accrue benefit leave monthly at the rate of sixteen and
eight hundred seventy-five thousandths (16.875) hours per month.

(3) Employees who have completed ten (10) continuous years of employment but less than fifteen
(15) continuous years of employment shall accrue benefit leave monthly at the rate of twenty (20)
hours per month.

(4) Employees who have completed at least fifteen (15) continuous. years of employment shall
accrue benefit leave monthly at the rate of twenty-three and one hundred twenty-five-thousandths
(23.125) hours per month.

(5) Benefit leave can only accrue if the employee works, is on a paid leave of absence, or on worker's
compensation for more than half of the month.

Charging benefit leave. Benefit leave shall be charged at the rate the employee is scheduled to work.

Eligibility for accrual.

(4) Those employees who are starting fo work on or before the fifteenth day of the month shall have
their accounts credited with the appropriate benefit leave time on the first day of the month
following the month in which they were hired.

(2) Those employees who are starting to work after the fifteenth day of the month shall have their
accounts credited with the appropriate benefit leave time on the first day of the second month
following the month in which they were hired.

(3) Employees who have been terminated or who have resigned from city or county employment will
teceive credit for benefit leave for the month they left employment only if they worked past the
fifteenth day of the month.

Use of benefit leave. The final right to approve use of benefit leave shall rest-with the office,
department, division, bureau or commission involved in order to preserve efficiency and provide the
necessary service.

Part-time employees. Part-time employees,-whe-are_scheduledte-werk_atteast 1320-hoursAa
ealendaryear-shall be entitled to benefit leave; however, Jeave accrual and pay for these employees
shall be prorated based upon the average hours scheduled worked during the previous six (6) months
of employment.

When benefit leave does not accrue. No benefit leave shall accrue while an employee is on any leave
without pay status. No temporary/seasonal or part-time/temporary employee is eligible to accrue
benefit leave or pay.

Benefit leave carryover.

(1) For city and county employees paid on a biweekly basis: Benefit leave shall be taken within the
calendar year in which it is accumulated or it shall be lost. However, up to a maximum of one
hundred sixty hours (160) (one hundred fifty (150) where appropriate) of benefit leave may be
carried over from one (1) calendar year to the next calendar year, provided the officials retain the
right to schedule such carryover at their discretion in order to maintain the efficiency of the
operation involved. In addition, an employee who is required by management to work during a
period which the employee had been previously scheduled to take benefit leave and who is
unable due to the demands of his/her position to reschedule the benefit leave for that calendar
year may be allowed, with the approval of the mayor or the appropriate elected official or agency
head, to carry over an additional eighty (80) hours (seventy-five (75) where appropriate) of benefit
leave, subject to such restrictions as may be imposed by the mayor or the appropriate elected
official or agency head. Benefit leave in excess of the maximum carryover amount shail be added
to an employee's short term disability leave bank, if that bank is not at maximum accrual.

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2021

=== 287-2021 proposal document, page 4 of 9 (OCR) ===
6)

(k)

G.O. No. 38, 2021
Page 4

(2) For city employees covered by the current master agreement between the city and the American
Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees: Benefit ieave shall be taken. within the
calendar year in which it is accumulated or it shall be lost. However, up to a maximum of the
number of hours which the employee can accrue in a calendar year may be carried over from one
(1) calendar year to the next calendar year, provided the officials retain the right to schedule such
carryover at their discretion in order to maintain the efficiency of the operation involved. In
addition, an employee who is required. by management to work during a period which the
employee had been previously scheduled to take benefit leave and who is unable due to the
demands of his/her position to reschedule the benefit leave for-that calendar year may be allowed,
with the approval of the mayor, to carry over an additional eighty (80) hours of benefit leave,
subject to such restrictions as may be imposed by the mayor. Benefit leave in excess of the
maximum carryover amount shall be added to an employee's short term disability leave bank, if
that bank is not at maximum accrual.

Two weeks’ notice. Two (2) weeks’ notice must be given upon voluntary resignation in order to receive
payment for accrued benefit leave. The city department or county agency may waive this requirement
for good cause determined in consultation with the human resources division. The maximum payment
for accrued benefit leave shall be ten (10) weeks in 2021, eight (8) weeks in year 2022, and six (6)
weeks in year 2023 and every year thereafter.

Termination, separation prior to six (6) months of employment. Employees who are terminated or
separate employment prior to the completion of six (6) months of employment will not be paid for
accumulated, unused benefit ieave.

Termination for gross misconduct. Employees who are terminated for gross misconduct will not be

paid for accumulated, unused benefit leave. Gross misconduct shall include:

(1) the filing of criminal charges against an employee;

(2) working or reporting to work ina state of intoxication caused by the employee’s use of alcohol or
a controlled substance;

(3) battery on another individual while on City-County property or during working hours;

(4)_ theft or embezzlement;

(5) fraud.

(kl) Employees transferred from noncity or noncounty entities. Any person who-becomes an employee as

a result of a transfer of the duties of his/her former employer to the city or county may, upon the
approval of the appropriate official, use his/her most recent hire date with the former employer for the
purpose of determining benefit leave accrual.

(im) Advance use of benefit leave. Employees of Marion County offices and agencies (including Marion

County courts) may not use or be paid for benefit leave hours before such hours are accrued. However,
an elected official or agency who wishes to allow employees to use benefit leave up to one (1) week
in advance may request permission to do so from the Marion County job classification and
compensation board. The board may grant permission to the elected official to allow up to one (1)
week use of benefit leave under such circumstances as the board deems advisable. Any benefit leave
so advanced which remains outstanding upon an employee's termination shall be collected or withheld
from the employee's final pay.

SECTION 5. Section 291-206 of the Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County” hereby is amended
by deleting the language that is stricken-through and adding the language that is underlined, to read as follows:

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2021

=== 287-2021 proposal document, page 5 of 9 (OCR) ===
G.O. No. 38, 2021
Page 5

Sec. 291-206. - Holidays.

(a)

Designated. The following are designated as city and county holidays for full-time and part-time

employees:
New Year's Day (January 1st);

Martin Luther King Day (third Monday of January);

President’s Day (third Monday of February);

Memorial Day (last Monday of May);

Juneteenth Observed (June 19");

Independence Day Observed (July 4th);

Labor Day (first Monday of September);

Indigenous People’s Day (second Monday of October);

Veteran's Day (November 11th);

Thanksgiving Eve, close at Noon (fourth Wednesday of November);

Thanksgiving Day (fourth Thursday of November);

Friday after Thanksgiving;

Day before Christmas Eve, close at Noon (December 23rd);

Christmas Eve (December 24):

Christmas Day (December 25th);

New Year’s Eve, close at Noon (December 31%);

Floating Holiday. This floating holiday shall be taken on a day of the employee's choosing-with the
approval of the employee’s supervisor. Such approval shalt.not be unreasonably withheld. The
floating holiday must be taken as a full work day. It shall be taken once each year and will not carry
over from year to year and will not be paid out upon the employee's separation.

Primary Election Day; and

General Election Day in years with state and municipal elections;

provided; however, that nothing in this ordinance shall prevent the offices of the county clerk, county

prosecutor and the courts from designating h

jays recognized by the judicial branch.

=== 287-2021 proposal document, page 6 of 9 (OCR) ===
G.O. No. 38, 2021
Page 6

{2)-Temporary_employees.tempeorary/seasonal-and—part-timestemporary_employees—do—not
feceive-holiday-pay- . , . Boo oo

_(b) Days celebrated as holidays in Monday-through-Friday operations.

(1) __In Monday-through-Friday operations, when any of these holidays occur on Sunday, the Monday
succeeding shall be designated as the legal holiday. When any holiday occurs on Saturday, the Friday
preceding shall be designated _as the legal holiday. Otherwise. employees shall observe the actual
holiday.
(2) Holiday pay for unworked holiday. Employees shall receive holiday pay at the employee's reqular
straight time rate for each of the designated holidays, if the employee is normally scheduled to work
on the day that has been designated as a holiday.

(3) An employee who is required to work on the actual holiday shall be paid time and one-half in
addition to holiday pay for all time authorized for work on the day designated_as the holiday, or
compensatory time and one-half off as determined by the department or agency.

_(c) Days celebrated as holidays in continuing operations.

(1) In continuing seven-day-a-week operations, employees will observe the actual holiday. if possible
and will receive the employee’s reqular straight time rate for each of the designated holidays, if
the employee is normally scheduled to work on the day that has been designated as a holiday.

(2) If the holiday is observed on a day of the week when an employee is not normally scheduled to
work, the employee shall observe the employee's next reqularly-scheduled work day as a holiday
and receive holiday pay at the employee’s regular straight time rate.

(3) An employee who is required to work on the actual holiday shall be paid time and one-half in
addition to holiday pay for all time authorized for work on the day designated. as the holiday, or
compensatory time and one-half off as determined by the department or agency,

(d) Days celebrated as holidays when employee is on a compressed or alternate work schedule.

(1)_ Employees shall observe the actual holiday, if.possible, and shall- receive holiday pay at the
employee's regular straight time rate for the number of-hours the employee would have been regularly
scheduled to work on that day..

(2) If a holiday is observed on a day of the week when an employee is not normally scheduled to work
the employee shall observe the employee’s next regularly scheduled work day as-a holiday and shall
receive holiday pay for the number-of hours the employee would have been regularly scheduled to
work on that day,

(3) An employee who is required to work on the actual holiday shall be-paid time and one-half in
addition to holiday pay for all time authorized for work on the day designated as the holiday, -or
compensatory time and one-half off as determined by the department or agency.

(e) Eligibility for holiday pay. To be eligible, the employee must work the full scheduled workday before
and the full scheduled workday following the holiday, unless the employee is on a paid leave of absence.
In Monday-through-Friday operations, there shall be no duplication or pyramiding of-holiday pay.

(f\___ Failure to report for scheduled work. Any empioyee scheduled for work on a day designated as a
holiday, who fails to report for work or absents himself or herself for that day, shail not be eligible for holiday
pay or compensatory time off as the case may be. Regardless of whether the absence is approved or not,
any employee scheduled to work on a holiday, who fails to work that holiday, must use paid leave.time to
be paid for that day.

(g) Temporary employees. Temporary/seasonal_and_part-time/ temporary employees do_not receive
holiday pay.

SECTION 6. Section 291-217 is added as a new section of the "Revised Code of the Consolidated City and
County" by adding the language below:

291-217. - Parental Leave
GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2021

=== 287-2021 proposal document, page 7 of 9 (OCR) ===
G.O. No. 38, 2021
Page 7

ble employees will be entitled to up to-six (6) weeks of paid parental leave, depending
on length of employment, following the birth of an employee's child or the placement of a child with an employee
in connection with adoption. This leave will run concurrently Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA) leave,
as applicable. This policy will be in effect for births or adoptions of children occurring on or after January 1,
2022.

(a) Leave generally. El

(b) Eligibility.
(Y) Employees must meet the following criteria to be eligible for six (6) weeks of parental leave:
(A) Have been employed by the City for at least twelve (12) months
(B) Have worked at least 1,250 hours during the twelve (12) consecutive months immediately
preceding the date the leave would begin; and
(C) Be a full- or part-time, regular employee (temporary employees and seasonal employees are
not eligible for this benefit).
(2) Employees must meet the following criteria to be eligible for four (4) weeks of parental leave:
(A) Have been employed by the City for at least six (6) months; and
(B) Have worked at least 625 hours during the six (6) consecutive months immediately preceding
the date the leave would begin; and
(C) Be a full- or part-time, regular employee (temporary employees and seasonal employees are
not eligible for this benefit).
(3) Employees must meet the following criteria to be eligible for two (2) weeks of parental leave:
(A) Have been employed by the City for at least three (3) months; and

(B) Have worked at least 312.5 hours during the three (3) consecutive months immediately
preceding the date the leave would begin; and

(C) Be a full- or part-time, regular employee (temporary empioyees and-seasonai employees are
not eligible for this benefit).

(4) in addition, employees must meet one of the following criteria:
(A) Have given birth to a child; or
(B) Be the legal or biological parent of a child, recently born or adopted, if that child-is age 17 or
younger.
(C) The child must live in the same residence as the employee requesting the parental leave.

(c) Employees will be entitled to this paid parental leave no more than once in-a rolling twelve (12)-month
period, regardless of whether more than one birth or adoption event occurs within that twelve-(12)-month time
frame.

(d) Pay. Each week of paid parental leave is compensated at the employee’s-regular, straighttime weekly pay.
Paid parental leave will be paid on the employee's regularly scheduled pay dates.

(e) When taken. Upon approval by the human resources division, paid parental leave may be taker at any
time during the six (6)-month period immediately following the birth or adoption of a child with the employee.
Paid parental leave may not be used or extended beyond this six (6)-month time frame.

(f) Paid parental leave is separate from other leave time and shall not be deducted from an employee’s short-
term disability or benefit leave accrual balance.

(g) Employees must take paid parental leave in one continuous period of leave. Any unused paid parental
leave will be forfeited at the end of the eligible six (6)-month time frame.

(h) Upon separation for any reason, the employee will not be paid for any unused paid parental leave for which
the employee was eligible.

(i) Implementation. The human resources di
decisions consistent with the intent of this leave.

sion is authorized to develop_additional guidance and make

SECTION 7. The expressed or implied repeal or amendment by this ordinance of any other ordinance or part
of any other ordinance does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred, or proceedings begun
prior to the effective date of this ordinance. Those rights, liabilities, and proceedings are continued, and

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2021

=== 287-2021 proposal document, page 8 of 9 (OCR) ===
G.O. No. 38, 2021
Page 8

and ‘fepealed amended
not been adopted. edna -

SECTION 8. Should any provision (section, paragraph, sentence, clause, or any other portion) of this
ordinance be declared by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, the remaining provision
or provisions shall not be affected, if and only if such remaining provisions can, without the invalid provision or
provisions, be given the effect intended by the Council in adopting this ordinance. To this end the provisions
of this ordinance are severable.

SECTION 9. This ordinance shail be in effect from and after its passage by the Council and compliance with
Ind. Code § 36-3-4-14.

The foregoing was passed by the City-County Council this 13!" day of September, 2021, at 9:01 p.m.

ity-County Council

SaRita Hughes
Clerk, City-County Council

Presented by me to the Mayor this 15" day of September, 2021.

SaRita Hughes
Clerk, City-County Council

pa
Approved and signed by me this Al “day of September, 2021. xf

Joseph H. Hogsett, Mayor

STATE OF INDIANA, MARION COUNTY)
)} SS:
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS )

|, SaRita Hughes, Clerk of the City-County Council, Indianapolis, Marion County, Indiana, do hereby certify
the above and foregoing is a full, true, and complete copy of Proposal No. 287, 2021, a Proposal for a
GENERAL ORDINANCE passed by the City-County Council on the 13 day of September, 2021, by a vote
of 23 YEAS and 0 NAYS and was retitled General Ordinance No. 38, 2021, which was signed by the Mayor
on the af BE day of September, 2021, and now remains on file and on record in my office.

WITNESS my hand and the official seal of the City of Indianapolis, Indiana, this lee day of September,

2021.
ASR
SaRita Hughes
Clerk, City-County Council
(SEAL)

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2021

=== 287-2021 proposal document, page 9 of 9 (OCR) ===
Proposal: PROP21- 287
Sponsor: Mascari
Action: Adopt
Committee: Admin and Fin

Yea: 23

Yea - 23
Adamson
Bain
Barth
Boots
Brown
Carlino

Nay - 0

Abstain - 0

Excused - 1
Annee

Not Voting - 1
McCormick

Indianapolis City - County Council
2020-2023
2020-2023

9/13/2021 9:01 PM

Nay: 0

Dilk
Evans-E
Evans-J
Graves
Gray
Hart

Abstain: 0

Ordinance: G.O. 38

Not Voting: 1

Jackson
Jones
Larrison
Lewis
Mascari
Mowery

RCS# 278

(PASSED)

Excused: 1

Oliver

Robinson
