=== 31-2026 proposal document, page 1 of 6 (OCR) ===
CITY-COUNTY GENERAL ORDINANCE NO. 22, 2026
Proposal No. 31, 2026

PROPOSAL FOR A GENERAL ORDINANCE modifying Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County
Section 261-408 pertaining to Responsible Bidding Practices.

BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA:

SECTION 1. Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County Section 261-408 entitled Responsible
bidding practices and submission requirements, is hereby amended by adding the sections that are
underlined and deleting the sections that have been stricken_through to read as follows:

Section 261-408. Responsible bidding practices and submission requirements.

{a) Bid submission requirements. Contractors proposing to submit bids on any City
public works project estimated to be at least one hundred and fifty thousand dollars
($150,000.00) must, prior to the bid submission deadline, submit a statement made
under oath and subject to perjury laws, on a form designated by the city (including
electronic form at the city's discretion) and must include:

(1) Certification of eligibility to do business in the State of Indiana. Within
seventy-two (72) hours of bid-opening, the apparent low bidder must
provide a copy of a print-out of the Indiana Secretary of State's online
records for the bidder dated within sixty (60) days of the submission of said
document showing that the bidder is in existence, current with the Indiana
Secretary of State's Business Entity Reports, and eligible for a certificate
of good standing. If the bidder is an individual, sole proprietor, or
partnership, this subsection shall not apply;

(2) A list identifying all former business names.

(3) Affirmation. of compliance with“all‘applicable federal, state, or local laws
including, ‘but not limited to, Indiana's Workers Compensation Statute and
any requirements.-of.the federal: or state department. of. labor: This
statement shall include any. Any determinations by a court or governmental
agency for violations of federal, state, or local laws including, but not
limited fo violations of contracting or antitrust laws, tax or licensing laws,
environmental laws, the Occupational Safety and Heaith Act ("OSHA"), or
federaj Davis-Bacon and related Acts;

(4) A statement describing the bidder's full-time staffing capa Ss and
ional labor (skilled labor and unskilled labor) sources from
which labor will be derived on the public works project;

(5) Certification of bidder's labor force participation in apprenticeship and/or
training programs approved by and registered with the United States
Department of Labor's Office of Apprenticeship, or its successor
organization. Within seventy-two (72) hours of bid-opening, the apparent
low bidder must provide evidence of participation in apprenticeship and
training programs, applicable to the work to be performed on the project,
which are approved by and registered with the United States Department
of Labor's Office of Apprenticeship, or its successor organization. The
required evidence includes a copy of all applicable apprenticeship
certificates or standards for those training programs.

(6) Certification that the bidder has implemented an employee drug testing
plan that meets, or exceeds, the requirements set forth in IC 36-1-12-24.
Within seventy-two (72) hours of the bid-opening, the apparent low bidder
must provide a copy of a written plan for employee drug testing that: (1)
covers all employees of the bidder who will perform work on the public
work project; and (2) meets, or exceeds, the requirements set forth in IC
36-1-12-24:

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2026

=== 31-2026 proposal document, page 2 of 6 (OCR) ===
(b)

(7)

(8)

(2)

(10)

(11)

GO. No. 22, 2026

Certification that the bidder will utilize project managers and
superintendents with sufficient relevant management experience to
complete the bidder's scope of work on the project. Within seventy-two
(72) hours of bid-opening, the apparent low bidder must provide a list of
the names and description of the relevant management experience of
each of the bidder's project managers and superintendents that bidder
intends to assign to work on the project;

Certification that the bidder and/or its management personnel possesses
any and all professional or trade licenses required by law for any trade or
specialty area in which bidder is seeking a contract award without
suspension or revocation of such licensure(s) within the previous five
years, Within seventy-two (72) hours of bid-opening, the apparent low
bidder must provide proof of such licensure, as well as disclosure of any
letters of suspension or revocation within the previous five years of any
professional or trade license held by the company, or of any director, office
or manager employed by the bidder;

Certification that the contractor is utilizing a surety company which is on
the United States Department of Treasury's listing of approved sureties.
Within seventy-two (72) hours of bid-opening, the apparent low bidder
must provide evidence of utilization of a surety company listed as an
approved surety by the United States Department of Treasury;

A written statement listing and describing any federal, state, or local tax
liens or tax delinquencies owed to any federal, state, or local taxing body
in the last five years; and

For contracts estimated to be at least three hundred thousand dollars
($300,000.00), certification that all contractors and subcontractors are
qualified under IC 4-13.6-4 or IC 8-23-10. Within seventy-two (72) hours
of bid-opening, the apparent low bidder must provide evidence that the
apparent low bidder and ail relevant subcontractors have been qualified
under IC 4-13.6-4 or IC 8-23-4.

The city at its sole discretion may rely solely upon the certified statements

of bidders without requiring or evaluating submissions of evidentiary support for
determining responsible bidder status. By submitting a certified statement under
this subsection, however, a bidder agrees to provide evidentiary support for all
statements made in its certified statement under this subsection. The city reserves
the right to require supplemental information from the bidder for verification of any
of the information provided by the bidder and may also conduct random inquiries
of the bidder's current and prior customers. Notwithstanding the foregoing, this
section shall not apply fo a public work project performed by the city in accordance
with iC 36-1-12-3(b).

Submissions from contractors.

(1)

(2)

All bidders shall provide a written list that discloses the name, address,
and type of work for each first-tier subcontractor from whom the bidder has
accepted a bid and/or intends to hire on any part of the public work project,
including individuals performing work as independent contractors. A
bidders shall adhere to city policy and procedures pertaining to minority
owned business and women owned business utilization.

In addition, each such first-tier subcontractor shall be required to adhere
to the requirements of subsection (a) of this section as though it were
bidding directly to the city, except that first-tier subcontractors shall submit
the required information (including the name, address, and type of work
for each of their first-tier subcontractors) to the bidder and the bidder shall
then forward said information to the city. The city must receive this
subcontractor information no later than five (5) business days after the
subcontractor’s first day of work on the public works project. Payment shail

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2026

Page 2

=== 31-2026 proposal document, page 3 of 6 (OCR) ===
(4)

(5)

G.O. No. 22, 2026

be withheld from any first-tier subcontractor who fails to timely submit said
information until such information is submitted and approved by the city.

Upon request, the city may require any bidder to provide the required
information (including name, address, type of work on the project and the
name of the higher-tier subcontractor) about its second and lower-tier
subcontractors. Subject to IC 36-1-12, payments shall be withheld from
any bidder who fails to timely submit this information until this information
is submitted and approved by the city. Additionally, the city may require
the successful bidder to remove the relevant subcontractor or second or
lower-tier subcontractor from the project and replace it with a responsive
and responsible subcontractor.

Subject to IC 36-1-12, the city may withhoid all payments otherwise due
to a bidder for work performed by a subcontractor until such subcontractor
submits the information required pursuant to this chapter and the city
approves such information. Successful bidders shall only be permitted to
use approved subcontractors which have provided required information to
the city about the applicable responsive and responsible subcontractor.

The disclosure of a subcontractor ("disclosed subcontractor") by a bidder
or a subcontractor shall not create any rights in the disclosed
subcontractor. A bidder and/or subcontractor may not substitute another
subcontractor ("substitute subcontractor’) for a disclosed subcontractor
without written approval of city. The contractor shall provide written notice
of the name, address, and type of work of the substitute subcontractor.
The substitute subcontractor shall be subject to all of the obligations of a
subcontractor under this chapter.

Validity of responsible bidder status.

(1)

(3)

Upon designation by the city that a contractor's or subcontractor's
submission in anticipation of a bid is complete and timely, and upon any
further consideration deemed necessary by the city, the contractor or
subcontractor may be deemed a qualified responsible bidder for future city
public works projects. A contractor's classification as "qualified responsible
bidder" shall exempt the contractor or sub-contractor from the
comprehensive submission requirements contained herein for a period of
twelve (12) months. Thereafter, contractors or subcontractors who are
deemed a qualified responsible bidder must submit a complete application
for continuation of "qualified responsible bidder" status on a form provided
by the city (also referred to as the "short form") by December 31* for the
upcoming calendar year. Failure by any contractor or subcontractor with
predetermined “qualified responsible bidder" status to timely submit its
complete application for continuation of “qualified responsible bidder"
status shall result in automatic removal of the designation, effective
January 1 of the upcoming year. However, the "removed" contractor or
subcontractor shail still be permitted to bid on city public works projects,
subject to bid submission requirements under subsections (a) and (b)
above.

Any material changes to the contractor's status, at any time, must be
reported in writing within ten (10) days of its occurrence to the city. The
qualified responsible bidder designation is solely within the discretion of
the city and the city specifically reserves the right to change or revoke the
designation for stated written reason(s).

Denial of pre-qualification shall be in writing and shall be forwarded to the
contractor within seven (7) working days of such decision. Any contractor
denied or losing qualified responsible bidder status may request
reconsideration of the decision by submitting such request in writing to the
city within five (5) business days of receipt of notice of denial.

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2026

Page 3

=== 31-2026 proposal document, page 4 of 6 (OCR) ===
(e)

(h)

G.O. No. 22, 2026

incomplete submissions by bidders. It is the sole responsibility of the potential
bidder to comply with all submission requirements made applicable to the bidder
by this section by no later than the public bid opening. Submissions from
subcontractors must be in accordance with subsections (a) and (b) above and in
a form designated by the city. Submissions deemed inadequate, incomplete, or
untimely by the city may result in the disqualification of the bid.

Responsive and responsible bidder determination. The city, after review of
complete and timely submissions, shail, in its sole discretion, after taking into
account all information in the submission requirements, determine whether a
bidder is responsive and responsible pursuant to IC 36-1-12-4 and: this Section of
the: Revised:Code. The city specifically reserves the right to utilize all information
provided in the contractor or subcontractor's submission or any information
obtained by the city through its own independent verification of the information
provided by the contractor. In the event the lowest bidder is not selected,'a written
explanation will be provided:

Certified payroll. For projects on which the estimated cost is at least is at least two
hundred and fifty thousand dollars ($250,000.00), the successful bidder and all
subcontractors working on a public work project shall submit a certified payroll
report utilizing the federal form now known as the WH-347 which must be prepared
on a weekly basis and submitted to the city within ten (10) calendar days after the
end of each week in which the bidder or subcontractor performed its work on the
public works project. These certified payroll records shail identify the job title, work
classification, rate of pay, and craft of each employee on the project, eg.,
journeyman electrician or apprentice electrician. As an alternative to using the WH-
347 form, the successful bidder and subcontractors may use their own payroll
reporting system so long as it conforms to the WH-347 form, contains all the same
information, and is accompanied by federal form WH-348, Statement of
Compliance.

Subject to IC 36-1-12, the city may withhold payment for work performed
by a bidder if the bidder fails to timely submit its certified payroll reports until such
times as such certified payroll reports are submitted. Subject to IC 36-1-12, the city
may also withhold payment due for the work performed by a subcontractor if the
subcontractor fails to timely submit its certified payroll reports until such time the
certified payroll reports are submitted. The city shall not withhold payment to a
bidder for work performed by the bidder or for work performed by subcontractors
who have submitted their certified payroll reports, because one or more other
subcontractors failed to timely submit their certified payroll reports.

Public records. All information submitted by a bidder or a subcontractor pursuant
to this chapter are public records subject to the Indiana Access to Public Records
law (IC 5-14-3). Successful bidders and subcontractors shall produce the
evidentiary support required by subsections (a) and (b), to the extent not already
provided, in response to a public records request for the information, subject to IC
5-14-3.

Penalties for false, deceptive, or fraudulent statements/information. Any bidder
that willfully makes, or willfully causes to be made, a false, deceptive or fraudulent
statement, or willfully submits false, deceptive or fraudulent information in
connection with any submission made to the city may, at the discretion of the city,
be disqualified from bidding on all city projects for a period of up to three (3) years.

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2026

Page 4

SECTION 2. The expressed or implied repeal or amendment by this ordinance of any other ordinance or
part of any other ordinance does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred, or
proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this ordinance. Those rights, liabilities, and proceedings
are continued, and penalties shall be imposed and enforced under the repealed or amended ordinance as
if this ordinance had not been adopted.

SECTION 3. Should any provision (section, paragraph, sentence, clause, or any other portion) of this
ordinance be declared by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, the remaining

=== 31-2026 proposal document, page 5 of 6 (OCR) ===
G.O. No. 22, 2026
Page 5

provision or provisions shall not be affected, if and only if such remaining provisions can, without the invalid
provision or provisions, be given the effect intended by the Council in adopting this ordinance. To this end
the provisions of this ordinance are severable.

SECTION 4. This ordinance shall be in effect from and after its passage by the Council and compliance
with Ind. Code § 36-3-4-14.

The foregoing was passed by the City-County Council this 2nd day of February, 2026, at 7:38 p.m.

ATTEST:

President, City-County Council

Yulonda Winfield .
Clerk, City-County Council

Presented by me to the Mayor this 3rd day of February, 2026

Lulora. Bp

Yulonda Winfield
Clerk, City-County Council

Approved and signed by me this YA aay of February, 2026.

h H. Hégsett, Mayor

STATE OF INDIANA, MARION COUNTY)
) SS:
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS )

1, Yulonda Winfield, Clerk of the City-County Council, indianapolis, Marion County, Indiana, do hereby certify
the above and foregoing is a full, true, and complete copy of Proposal No. 31, 2026, a Proposal for a
GENERAL ORDINANCE passed by the City-County Council on the 2nd day of February, 2026, by a vote of
25 YEAS ey ORAS, and was retitled General Ordinance No. 22, 2026, which was signed by the Mayor
on the 24 day of February, 2026, and now remains on file and on record in my office.

WITNESS my hand and the official seal of the City of indianapolis, Indiana, this ith day of February,
2026.

Yulonda Winfield o
Clerk, City-County Council

(SEAL)

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2026

=== 31-2026 proposal document, page 6 of 6 (OCR) ===
Indianapolis City - County Council RCS# 1054

2020-2023
2024-2027
2/2/2026 7:38 PM
VOTED AS PART OF
GROUP RCS #1051
Proposal: PROP-26 31 Ordinance: G.O. 22 (PASSED)
Sponsor: BROWN, OSILI, ROBERTS, BOOTS, EVANS, GIBSON
Action: Adopt
Committee: Public Works
Yea: 25 Nay: 0 Abstain: 0 Not Voting: 0 Excused: 0

Yea - 25

Allen Cahill Hart Nielsen

Annee Delaney Jones le;

Bain Dilk Lewis Perkins

Barth Evans Mascari Roberts

Boots Gibson McCormick Robinson

Brown-A Graves Mowery Wells

Brown-J
Nay - 0
Abstain - 0
Not Voting - 0

Excused - 0
