=== 332-2023 proposal document, page 1 of 6 (OCR) ===
CITY-COUNTY GENERAL ORDINANCE NO. 48, 2023
Proposal No. 332, 2023

A PROPOSAL FOR A GENERAL ORDINANCE to add Chapter 121, Article X, the Mile Square Economic
Enhancement District to the Revised Code.

BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA:

SECTION 1. Chapter 121 of the "Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County,” regarding taxation, is
hereby amended to add Article X, “Mile Square Economic Enhancement District” reading as follows:

ARTICLE X — MILE SQUARE ECONOMIC ENHANCEMENT DISTRICT
Sec. 121-1001. - Definitions
(a) “Board" shall refer to an economic enhancement district board established in this Article
(b) “Economic enhancement project" as used in this Article, means the following:

(1) Providing security for public areas, including installing and maintaining exterior cameras directly linked
with the Indianapolis metropolitan police department central control.

(2) Employing safety ambassadors to:

) assist with directions and information;

A) deter aggressive panhandling and other nuisance behavior,

B

C) facilitate open communications with police to report ongoing issues;
E

(

(

(

(D) provide safety escort services; and

(E) maintain a network of communication throughout the downtown area by engaging with private and
public security companies.

(3) Cleaning and maintaining sidewalks, including picking up litter, removing graffiti, and power washing.

(4) Conducting extensive outreach to unsheltered homeless individuals.

(5) Funding facility operations for a low barrier shelter for homeless individuals.

(6) Designing, landscaping, beautifying, or maintaining public areas.
(7) Activating and promoting public events.
(8) Creating innovative approaches to attracting new businesses.

(9) Supporting business development.

(10)Planning improvement acti
(c) “District” shall refer to the Economic Enhancement District established in this Article.
Sec. 121-1002. — Establishment of the Mile Square Economic Enhancement District
(a) The City-County Council finds that the area bounded by North Street on the North, East Street on the east,
South Street on the south and West Street on the west is hereby established as the Mile Square Economic

Enhancement District.

(b) The City-County Council further finds that the proposed economic enhancement projects will provide
special benefits to all property owners in the economic enhancement district;

(c) The initial special benefits assessment shall be caiculated in a manner that will generate an initial budget
not to exceed $5,500,000.00. For each taxable property in the district the special benefits assessment
shall be calculated as follows:

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2023

=== 332-2023 proposal document, page 2 of 6 (OCR) ===
G.O. No. 48, 2023
Page 2

(1) Residential properties shall be assessed a flat fee of $250.00 each.

(2) Alt other taxable, nonresidential property shall be assessed at a rate based on the formula below:

(A) The total budget amount minus the total amount raised from residential properties shall be divided
by the total assessed value of all the nonresidential taxable property in the district. This fraction
shall be considered the EED Assessment Rate.

{B) The EED Assessment Rate can be multiplied by the assessed value of any nonresidential taxable
property to determine that property's individual assessment.

(d) This designation and associated benefits for this district shall expire ten (10) years from the date of adoption
of this ordinance. However, the district may be extended for a period of ten (10) additional years if the
Council adopts an ordinance and the general assembly enacts legisiation to extend the life of the economic
enhancement district.

Sec. 121-1003. - Appointment of board members; staff support

(a) The economic enhancement board shall consist of eight (8) members to be appointed as follows:

(1) Two (2) members appointed by the city-county council.

(2) Two (2) members appointed by the mayor.

(3) Two (2) members appointed by the governor. One (1) of the members appointed under this subdivision
must represent the business community and own real property located within the economic
enhancement district.

(4) One (1) member of the state senate appointed by the president pro tempore.

(5) One (1) member of the house of representatives appointed by the speaker.

A majority of the board members must own real property within the economic enhancement district. Each board

member shall serve a term of one (1) year from the first day of January after the board member's appointment

and until the board member's successor is appointed and qualified.

(b) A proposal before the board must receive at least five (5) votes to authorize action by the board.

(c) Downtown Indy, Inc., or its successor organization, shall provide staff support to the economic
enhancement board.

(d) The members may not receive compensation for service on the board.
Sec. 121-1004 - Imposition of special benefits assessment; apportionment of benefits; public hearing

(a) The board, after approval of the city-county council and subject to Section 121-1011, may impose an
annual special benefits assessment on all of the taxable real property of the economic enhancement district
based on the relative benefits to be received by each type of property. The benefits accruing to parcels of
real property within an economic enhancement district may be apportioned among those parcels on any
basis reasonably representative of the diffusion of benefits from the economic enhancement projects,
including but not limited to the following:

(1) Proximity of the parcel to the projects.

(2) Accessibility of the parcel to the projects.

(3) True cash value of the parcels.

(4) True cash value of any improvement on the parcel.

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2023

=== 332-2023 proposal document, page 3 of 6 (OCR) ===
G.O. No. 48, 2023
Page 3

(5) Age of any improvement on the parcel.

(6) Other similar factors.

The apportionment of benefits under this subsection may be adjusted by zone or land use as provided in
subsections (c) and (d).

(b)

Upon determining the proposed assessment for each parcel, the board shall promptly mail notice to each
owner of property to be assessed. This notice must:

(1) set forth the amount of the proposed special assessment,
(2) state that the proposed special assessment on each parcel of real property in the economic
enhancement district is on file and may be seen in the board's office;

(3) set forth the time and place where the board will hold a public hearing to hear any owner of assessed
real property regarding their proposed assessment; and

(4) state that the board, after hearing evidence, may decrease, or leave unchanged, the special
assessment on any parcel.

The notices must be deposited in the mail not later than twenty (20) days before the hearing date. The notices
to the owners must be addressed as the names and addresses appear on the tax duplicates and the records
of the county auditor.

(c)

(2)

(e)

1)

(9)

(h)

If the benefit of the economic enhancement project varies from one (1) area to another within the economic
enhancement district, up to three (3) zones may be established within the economic enhancement district
fo delineate the approximate difference in beneficial impact, and benefits may be apportioned accordingly.

In order to encourage the retention or development of various land uses within the economic enhancement
district, assessments may be adjusted according to the zoning classification of the property.

Each special assessment is a lien on the real property that is assessed, second only to ad valorem property
taxes levied on that property.

After the public hearing is conducted under subsection (b), the board shall certify to the county auditor the
schedule of special assessments of benefits. For purposes of providing substantiation of the deductibility
of a special assessment for federal adjusted gross income tax purposes under Section 164 of the Internal
Revenue Code, the board shall, to the extent practicable, supplement the schedule of special assessments
provided to the county auditor with a statement that identifies the part of each special assessment that is
allocable to interest, maintenance, and repair charges. if the board provides the county auditor with the
statement, the county auditor shall show, on the tax statement, the part of the special assessment that is
for interest and maintenance and repair items separately from the remainder of the special assessment.

Not later than thirty (30) days after the county auditor receives the certification of final scheduled
assessments for the completion of the economic enhancement projects, the county auditor shall deliver a
copy of the certificate to the county treasurer. Each year, the county treasurer shall add the full annual
assessment due in that year to the tax statements of the person owning the property affected by the
assessment, designating it in a manner distinct from general taxes.

The proceeds of the special benefits assessments shall be deposited into a special fund known as the
economic enhancement district project fund, and shall be used by the board solely to finance economic
enhancement projects in or directly serving or benefiting the economic enhancement district. Any money
earned from investment of money in the fund becomes a part of the fund.

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2023

=== 332-2023 proposal document, page 4 of 6 (OCR) ===
G.O. No. 48, 2023
Page 4

Sec. 121-1005 - Annual budget; expenditures

(a) Not later than November 1 of each year, the board shall prepare and submit to the council a budget for the
following calendar year governing the board's projected expenditures from the economic enhancement
district project fund. The council may approve, modify, or reject the proposed budget.

(b) The board’s budget submittal shail include the total number of residential properties, the flat fee to be
assessed for residential properties, a break down and a total of the assessed value of all of the
nonresidential taxable properties and the total amount to be raised for a given year.

(c) Any increase in the annual special benefits assessment budget shall be calculated in a manner not to
exceed an inflationary adjustment based on the six-year moving average of Indiana non-farm personal
income as published by the U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis.

(d) The board may make an expenditure from the economic enhancement district project fund only if the
expenditure is approved by the city fiscal body in its review of the board's budget or is otherwise approved
by the council.

Sec. 121-1006 - Compliance with requirements for contracting for public works, open door, public
records

The board shall comply with IC 36-1-12 when contracting for public works. All meetings of the board shall
comply with Indiana’s Open Door Law, IC 5-14-1.5-1 ef seg. All records of the board shall be kept as directed
under Indiana’s Access to Public Records Act, IC 5-14-3-1 et seq.

Sec. 121-1007. - Leases or contracted agreements

The board may enter into lease or contractual agreements, or both, with governmental, not-for-profit, or other
private entities for the purpose of carrying out recovery projects.

Sec. 121-1008. - Disposal of assets and liabilities upon repeal of ordinance

If this ordinance is repealed or the district is otherwise terminated, the assets and liabilities of the economic
enhancement district shall be disposed of in the manner determined by the city. However, liabilities incurred by
the economic enhancement district are not an obligation of the city and are payable only from the special
benefits assessments and other revenues of the economic enhancement district.

Sec. 121-1009. - Annual report to city fiscal body

The board shall submit an annual report to the city fiscal body not later than June 30 of each year. The report
must summarize the board's activities and expenditures during the preceding calendar year.

Sec. 121-1010. - Power of the board to finance projects

Subject to section 121-1011, after approval of the city fiscal body, the board may issue revenue bonds payable
from special benefits assessment revenues or other revenues of the economic enhancement district to finance
an economic enhancement project.

Sec. 121-1011. - Failure to comply with statutory requirements

If the board fails to comply with a requirement under IC 36-7-40, the board may not issue revenue bonds and
a special assessment may not be assessed within the economic enhancement district.

SECTION 3. Should any provision (section, paragraph, sentence, clause, or any other portion) of this
ordinance be declared by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, the remaining provision
or provisions shall not be affected, if and only if such remaining provisions can, without the invalid provision or
provisions, be given the effect intended by the Council in adopting this ordinance. To this end the provisions
of this ordinance are severable.

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2023

=== 332-2023 proposal document, page 5 of 6 (OCR) ===
G.O. No. 48, 2023
Page 5

SECTION 4. This ordinance shall be in effect from and after its passage by the Council and compliance with
Ind. Code § 36-3-4-14.

The foregoing was passed by the City-County Council this 4" day of December, 2023, at 8:58 p.m.

ATTEST:

Vop Osili

Presid ity-County Council

Yulonda Winfield
Clerk, City-County Council

Presented by me to the Mayor this 6th day of December, 2023

Yulonda Winfield
Clerk, City-County Council

Approved and signed by me this day of December, 2023.

Joseph H. Hogsett, Mayor

STATE OF INDIANA, MARION COUNTY)
) SS:
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS )

|, Yulonda Winfield, Clerk of the City-County Council, Indianapolis, Marion County, Indiana, do hereby certify
the above and foregoing is a full, true, and complete copy of Proposal No. 332 2023, a Proposal for a
GENERAL ORDINANCE passed by the City-County Council on the 4" day of December, 2023, by a vote of
49 YEAS and 5 NAYS, and was retitled General Ordinance No. 48, 2023, which was signed by the Mayor

on the day of December, 2023, and now remains on file and on record in my office.
WITNESS my hand and the official seal of the City of Indianapolis, Indiana, this day of December,
2023.

Yulonda Winfield
Clerk, City-County Council
(SEAL)

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2023

=== 332-2023 proposal document, page 6 of 6 (OCR) ===
G.O. No. 48, 2023
Page 5

SECTION 4. This ordinance shall be in effect from and after its passage by the Council and compliance with
Ind. Code § 36-3-4-14.

The foregoing was passed by the City-County Council this 4" day of December, 2023, at 8:58 p.m.

ATTEST:

Yulonda Winfield
Clerk, City-County Council

Presented by me to the Mayor this 6th day of December, 2023

Yulonda Winfield
Clerk, City-County Council

Approved and signed by me this Cth day of December, 2023.

0 ant Aly
H. HogSett, Mayor

|, Yulonda Winfield, Clerk of the City-County Council, Indianapolis, Marion County, Indiana, do hereby
certify the above and foregoing is a full, true, and complete copy of Proposal No. 332, 2023, a Proposal for a
GENERAL ORDINANCE passed by the City-County Council on the 4" day of December, 2023, by a vote of
19 YEAS and AYS, and was retitled General Ordinance No. 48, 2023, which was signed by the Mayor
on the IL, day of December, 2023, and now remains on file and on record in my office.

STATE OF INDIANA, MARION COUNTY)
) SS:
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS )

WITNESS my hand and the official seal of the City of indianapolis, Indiana, this 7 Za day of December,
2023.

Yulonda Winfield
Clerk, City-County Council

(SEAL)

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2023
