=== 334-2025 proposal document, page 1 of 20 ===
CITY COUNTY COUNCIL PROPOSAL NO. 334, 2025 
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS-MARION COUNTY, INDIANA 
 
INTRODUCED:  11/3/2025    
 
REFERRED TO:  Metropolitan and Economic Development Committee 
 
SPONSOR: Councilor Lewis 
 
DIGEST:  amends various sections of the Code to reflect unsafe building and permitting process changes 
within the Department of Business and Neighborhood Services, in accordance with the state legislature  
 
 
SOURCE:   
Initiated by: Department of Business and Neighborhood Services 
Drafted by: Department of Business and Neighborhood Services 
 
LEGAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ADOPTION: PROPOSED EFFECTIVE DATE: 
Subject to approval or veto by Mayor Adoption and approvals 
 
GENERAL COUNSEL APPROVAL:  _________________________________ Date:  October 30, 2025 
 
 
CITY-COUNTY GENERAL ORDINANCE NO.     , 2025 
 
A PROPOSAL FOR A GENERAL ORDINANCE to  amend various sections Chapters 536 Buildings and 
Construction and 537 Vacant Building Standards, of the Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County 
to reflect fee, penalty, and policy changes regarding enforcement and permitting within the Department of 
Business and Neighborhood Services 
 
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE 
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA: 
 
SECTION 1.  Chapter 536 Section 111 of the Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County is hereby 
amended by adding the sections that are underlined and deleting the sections that have been stricken 
through to read as follows: 
 
Sec. 536-111. Definitions.  
 
Unless otherwise clearly indicated by the context, the terms defined in this section shall have the 
meanings ascribed to them in this section when used in this chapter and Chapter 875. If a term defined in 
this section is inconsistent or conflicts with any term defined in a rule promulgated by the fire prevention 
and building safety commission, then the term, as defined by the fire prevention and building safety 
commission, will be applied to the rules promulgated by the fire prevention and building safety 
commission and incorporated by reference under Article VIII of this chapter.   
 
Building equipment  means any machine, device, apparatus or material used as part of permanent 
heating, ventilation, air conditioning, electrical, plumbing sanitary, emergency detection, emergency 
communication, or fire or explosion systems.  
  
Building standards and procedures  means regulations, standards or requirements relative to either 
construction or the condition of existing structures or building equipment established by or under federal 
law, state law or city ordinances. Building standards and procedures shall specifically include rules 
promulgated by the Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission, adopted herein by reference, and 
the substantive and procedural provisions of this chapter.

=== 334-2025 proposal document, page 2 of 20 ===
Proposal No. 334, 2025 
Page 2 
 
Class 1 structure means any part of the following, as defined in IC 22-12-1-4:  
 
(1) A building or structure that is intended to be or is occupied or otherwise used in any part by 
any of the following: 
  
a. The public;   
 
b. Three (3) or more tenants; or 
   
c. One (1) or more persons who act as the employees of another;   
 
(2) A site improvement affecting access by persons with physical disabilities to a building or 
structure described in subdivision (1); or   
 
(3) Any class of buildings or structures that the Indiana Fire Prevention and Building Safety 
Commission determines by rules to affect a building or structure described in subdivision (1 ), 
except as listed below.   
 
Class 1 structure includes a structure that contains three (3) or more condominium units (as defined 
in IC 32-1-6-2 IC 32-25-2-9) or other units that:   
 
(1) Are intended to be or are used or leased by the owner of the unit; and   
 
(2) Are not completely separated from each other by an unimproved space.   
 
Class 1 structure does not include a building or structure that:   
 
(1) Is intended to be or is used only for an agricultural purpose on the land where it is located; 
and   
 
(2) Is not used for retail trade or is a stand used for retail sales of farm produce for eight (8) or 
less consecutive months in a calendar year.   
 
Class 1 structure does not include a Class 2 structure or a vehicular bridge.   
 
Class 1 structure does not include a structure that is intended to be or is occupied solely to provide 
periodic maintenance or repair of:  
 
(1) The structure; or  
 
(2) Mechanical or electrical equipment located within and affixed to the structure.    
 
Class 2 structure means any part of the following, as defined in IC 22-12-1-5:  
  
(1) A building or structure that is intended to contain or contains only one (1) dwelling unit or two 
(2) dwelling units unless any part of the building or structure is regularly used as a Class 1 
structure; or   
 
(2) An outbuilding for a structure described in subdivision (1), such as a garage, barn, or family 
swimming pool, including an above-ground swimming pool, unless any part of the outbuilding 
is regularly used as a Class 1 structure.   
 
Class 2 structure does not include a vehicular bridge.   
 
Construction means any of the following:   
 
(1) Fabrication of any part of an industrialized building system or mobile structure for use at 
another site;

=== 334-2025 proposal document, page 3 of 20 ===
Proposal No. 334, 2025 
Page 3 
 
(2) Erection or assembly of any part of a Class 1 or Class 2 structure at the site where it will be 
used;   
 
(3) Installation of any part of the permanent heating, ventilating, air conditioning, electrical, 
plumbing, sanitary, emergency detection, emergency communication, or fire or explosion 
suppression systems for a Class 1 or Class 2 structure at the site where it will be used;    
 
(4) Work undertaken to alter, remodel, rehabilitate, or add to any part of a Class 1 or Class 2 
structure; or   
 
(5) Work undertaken to relocate any part of a Class 1 or Class 2 structure, except a mobile 
structure.  
  
Cooling system means a system that utilizes a source of energy to accomplish the cooling (not below 
a constant temperature of sixty (60) degrees Fahrenheit) of more than one (1) partitioned space in a 
structure or to accomplish the cooling of all or part of a structure by distribution of air through ductwork 
extending more than twelve (12) inches from the appliance collars, or distribution of liquid or vapor 
through on-site piping.   
 
Division of construction and business services  or division means the division of construction and 
business services of the department of business and neighborhood services.   
 
Electrical power distribution system  means a system for the distribution of electrical current both 
within and on the exterior of a structure, from an electrical power source to receptacles or equipment that 
uses electricity; provided, however, that class 2 and class 3 circuits (as defined by the Indiana Electrical 
Code) shall not be considered part of an electrical power distribution system for purposes of this 
definition.  
  
Heating system  means a system that utilizes a source of energy including, but not limited to, 
electricity, fossil fuels, geothermal, solar and wind, to accomplish the warming of more than one (1) 
partitioned space in a structure or to accomplish the warming of all or part of a structure by distribution of 
air through ductwork extending more than twelve (12) inches from the appliance collars, or distribution of 
liquid or vapor through on -site piping; provided, however, that a structural design that utilizes largely 
natural means to cause flow of thermal energy from the sun to accomplish warming of all or part of a 
structure shall not be considered a heating system for purposes of this definition.   
 
Industrialized building system  means any part of a building or other structure that is in whole or in 
substantial part fabricated in an off -site manufacturing facility for installation or assembly at the building 
site as part of a Class 1 structure, a Class 2 structure, or another building or structure. However, the term 
does not include a mobile structure or a system that is capable of inspection at the building site.    
 
License administrator  means the license administrator as assigned by the deputy director of the 
division of construction and business services.  
  
Manufactured home has the meaning set forth in 42 U.S.C. 5402 as it existed on January 1, 1984.    
 
Mobile structure means any part of a fabricated unit that is designed to be:   
 
(1) Towed on its own chassis; and   
 
(2) Connected to utilities for year -round occupancy or use as a Class 1 structure, a Class 2 
structure, or another structure.   
 
The term includes the following:   
 
(1) Two (2) or more components that can be retracted for towing purposes and subsequently 
expanded for additional capacity; or   
 
(2) Two (2) or more units that are separately towable but designed to be joined into one (1) 
integral unit.

=== 334-2025 proposal document, page 4 of 20 ===
Proposal No. 334, 2025 
Page 4 
 
 
One- or two-family residential structure means a Class 2 structure.  
  
Ordinary maintenance and repair  means construction commonly accomplished in or on an existing 
structure for the purpose of preventing deterioration or performance deficiencies, maintaining 
appearance, or securing the original level of performance. Preventing deterioration or deficient 
performance shall include such activities as caulking windows, painting, pointing bricks, oiling machinery 
and replacing filters. Maintaining appearance shall include such activities as sandblasting masonry and 
cleaning equipment. Securing the original level of performance shall include such activities as replacing 
broken glass, patching a roof, disassembling and reassembling a piece of building equipment, welding a 
broken part and replacing a component of a heating system (but not a furnace) with an identical 
component. Ordinary maintenance and repair shall not include any construction that alters the prior or 
initial capacity, performance specifications, type of required energy or functional features of an existing 
structure or building equipment.   
 
Partnership or corporation means a partnership, corporation, or other business association, including 
limited liability company, organized and authorized to do business under the laws of Indiana.    
 
Person means an individual human being.   
 
Plumbing fixture means a plumbing system that has a water supply, a drain or one that includes both 
a water supply and a drain, such as a water closet, lavatory, bathtub, and sink.    
 
Refrigeration equipment means equipment that utilizes a source of energy to accomplish the cooling 
of a space or materials to a constant temperature below sixty (60) degrees Fahrenheit, typically for such 
purposes as food storage, mechanical fabrication, or industrial processing; provided, however, that plug -
in electrical appliances such as freezers or icemakers that do not require more than twelve (12) amperes 
of current at a nominal one hundred fifteen (115) volts shall not be considered refrigeration equipment for 
purposes of this definition.   
 
Service equipment means the necessary equipment, usually consisting of a circuit breaker or switch 
and fuses and their accessories, located near the point of entrance of electrical supply conductors to a 
structure or an otherwise defined area, intended to constitute the main control and means of cutoff of the 
electrical supply.   
 
Space cooling equipment means equipment that utilizes a source of energy to accomplish the cooling 
(not below a constant temperature of sixty (60) degrees Fahrenheit) of an unpartitioned space within a 
structure in which the equipment is located without the use of duct work for the distribution of air 
extending more than twelve (12) inches beyond the appliance collars or the use of on -site piping for the 
distribution of liquid or vapor; provided, however, that plug -in electrical appliances such as window air 
conditioners that do not require more than twelve (12) amperes of current at a nominal one hundred 
fifteen (115) volts shall not be considered space cooling equipment for purposes of this definition.    
 
Space heating equipment means equipment that utilizes a source of energy including, but not limited 
to, electricity, fossil fuels, geothermal, solar and wind, to accomplish the warming of an unpartitioned 
space within a structure in which the equipment is located without the use of air distribution ductwork that 
extends more than twelve (12) inches beyond the appliance collars or the use of on -site piping for the 
distribution of liquid or vapor; provided, however, that the following shall not be considered space heating 
equipment for purposes of this definition:   
 
(1) Plug-in electrical appliances such as freestanding room heaters that do not require more than 
twelve (12) amperes of current at a nominal one hundred fifteen (115) volts;  
  
(2) Self-contained fireplaces; and   
 
(3) A structural design that utilizes largely natural means to cause flow of thermal energy from 
the sun to accomplish warming of all or part of a structure.

=== 334-2025 proposal document, page 5 of 20 ===
Proposal No. 334, 2025 
Page 5 
 
Structure means that which is built or constructed, such as an edifice or building of any kind, or any 
piece of work artificially built up or composed of parts formed together in some definite manner, or any 
part thereof. The word "structure" shall not include improvements such as public roadways or bridges.    
 
Townhouse, for the purposes of subdivision, means a single -family dwelling unit constructed in a 
group of three (3) or more attached units in which each unit:  
 
1. Extends from foundation to roof;  
 
2. Is not more than three (3) stories in height;  
 
3. Is separated from each adjoining unit by:  
 
a. Two (2) one (1) hour fire-resistance rated walls with exposure from both sides; or  
 
b. A common two (2) hour fire resistance rated wall; and   
 
4. Has open space on at least two (2) sides.   
 
SECTION 2.  Chapter 536 Section 202 of the Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County is hereby 
amended by adding the sections that are underlined and deleting the sections that have been stricken 
through to read as follows: 
 
Sec. 536-202. Eligibility to obtain and apply for a building permit.  
 
(a) To obtain a building permit a person, partnership or corporation must meet the requirements of 
paragraphs (1) through (5) below and must be the person, partnership or corporation that will 
either actually accomplish, supervise accomplishment or be contractually responsible for 
accomplishment of the construction allowed by the building permit:   
 
(1) Any person, partnership or corporation that is a listed contractor under Article I of Chapter 
875 may:  
 
a. Obtain a building permit to accomplish any construction except work for which Articles II, 
III or IV of Chapter 875 require licensure or IC 25-28.5-1 requires a state license; or 
 
b.  Obtain a master building permit under sections 536-203 or 536-204; 
 
(2) Any person, partnership or corporation licensed under Articles II, III or IV of Chapter 875 may 
obtain a building permit solely to accomplish construction allowed by the license or type of 
license held by the person, partnership or corporation;  
  
(3) Any person or corporation registered under Article V of Chapter 875 may obtain a building 
permit solely to accomplish construction for which state licensure as a plumbing contractor is 
required;   
 
(4) Any person who is either a registered architect or registered engineer licensed to practice in 
the State of Indiana may obtain a building permit to accomplish any construction for which a 
design release is required and has been given by the office of the state building 
commissioner. Such architect or engineer, however, may not obtain a building permit for work 
relative to which Articles II, III or IV of Chapter 875 require a license; and    
 
(5) Any person, partnership or corporation  individual that owns, is a contract purchaser or is a 
long-term lessee of an improved or unimproved parcel of land that the person, partnership or 
corporation intends to utilize for its own purposes (e.g., permanent business location, place of 
residence, rental property that the owner is obligated to maintain)  may obtain a building 
permit to accomplish construction on such parcel carried out through direct efforts of:

=== 334-2025 proposal document, page 6 of 20 ===
Proposal No. 334, 2025 
Page 6 
 
a. The person; or  
 
b. One (1) or more employees of the individual person, partnership or corporation  (including 
temporary employees hired to do construction work).; or   
c. Persons who volunteer to work on the construction and who are not compensated for their 
services.  
  
Such a Such individual person, partnership or corporation  may not obtain a building permit to 
wreck a structure for which Article IV of Chapter 875 requires licensure. Such individual a 
person, partnership or corporation  may not obtain a building permit for work relative to which 
IC 25-28.5-1 requires a state license. The requirements of section 875 -222 and section 875 -
321 must be met for such a person, partnership or corporation to obtain a  Such individual 
may not obtain a building permit to accomplish construction relative to which Articles II and III 
of Chapter 875 require licensure , unless the requirements of section 875 -222 and section 
875-321 are met.  In addition, any person, partnership or corporation that owns, is a contract 
purchaser or is a long -term lessee of an improved or unimproved parcel of land that the 
person, partnership or corporation intends to utilize for its own purposes (e.g., permanent 
business location, place of residence, rental property that the owner is obligated to maintain) 
may obtain a building permit to allow construction on such parcel to be carried out by one (1) 
or more listed contractors as long as a single listed contractor is not responsible for all of the 
construction to be done on the parcel. Such a person, partnership or corporation may not 
obtain a permit to demolish or remove a structure for which Article IV of Chapter 875 requires 
licensure. Such a person, partnership or corporation may not obtain a building permit for work 
relative to which IC 25 -28.5-1 requires a state license. The requirements of section 875 -222 
and section 875 -321 must be met for such a person, partnership or corporation to obtain a 
building permit to accomplish construction relative to which Articles II and III of Chapter 875 
require licensure.  
 
(b) Application for a building permit may be made by the person entitled to obtain the permit, or by an 
employee of the person, partnership or corporation entitled to obtain the permit, or by an 
employee of a company in the business of obtaining permits for persons, partnerships and 
corporations listed or licensed under provisions of this chapter. The division of construction and 
business services may require that an employee or agent provide written evidence of authority to 
apply for the permit. 
 
SECTION 3.  Chapter 536 Section 205 of the Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County is hereby 
amended by adding the sections that are underlined and deleting the sections that have been stricken 
through to read as follows: 
 
Sec. 536-205. Building permits obtained by written application. 
  
(a) Application for a building permit shall be made to the division of construction and business 
services. The application shall be made in accordance with this section ., unless each and every 
requirement of section 536-209 is met and the administrator as assigned by the deputy director of 
the division decides to issue a building permit on the basis of that section.   
 
(b) The application shall be in writing on  a form prescribed by the division of construction and 
business services and shall be supported with  required documentation in accordance with 
guidelines for a complete application as outlined by the division of construction and business 
services and in accordance with Title III of this Revised Code and with IC 36 -7-2.5 (where 
applicable).   
 
(1) Two (2) copies of detailed plans and specifications drawn to scale that indicate in a precise 
manner the nature and location of all work to be accomplished pursuant to the building 
permit. In lieu thereof, it shall be within the discretion of the administrator as assigned by the 
deputy director of the division to accept two (2) copies of a written statement indicating the 
nature and location of the work to be done pursuant to the building permit where such written 
statement describes the work as precisely as a copy of detailed plans and specifications 
drawn to scale.

=== 334-2025 proposal document, page 7 of 20 ===
Proposal No. 334, 2025 
Page 7 
 
(2) Two (2) copies of a plot plan drawn to scale that reflect the location of the structure in relation 
to existing property lines and that show streets, curbs and sidewalks and proposed changes 
or additions to such streets, curbs and sidewalks; provided, however, such plot plan shall not 
be required in the instance where all of the construction is to occur inside an existing 
structure.   
 
(3) An improvement location permit, issued by the division, if required by the ordinance providing 
for the improvement location permit.   
 
(4) Written approval from the Marion County Health and Hospital Corporation for any 
contemplated private sewage disposal system.   
 
(5) Design release from the office of the state building commissioner, in concurrence with the 
state fire marshal, if required by Indiana law or any rule of the fire prevention and building 
safety commission.  
  
(6) A drainage permit, issued by the division of division, if required by the ordinance providing for 
a drainage permit.   
 
(7) A connection permit, issued by the division, if required by the ordinance requiring a permit for 
connection to a sewer.   
 
(c) In the instance where a building permit is requested for the purpose of allowing the demolition or 
removal of a structure, such application shall be supported with a written statement from each 
utility that its service to the premises has been disconnected, and with either a written statement 
from the record titleholder of such premises authorizing the demolition or removal or a court order 
or administrative order requiring the demolition or removal of the structure.   
 
(d) In the instance where a building permit is requested for the purpose of allowing the demolition or 
removal of a structure that is in excess of seventy -five (75) feet in height, such application shall 
be supported by a certificate of insurance reflecting that the obtainer of the building permit has a 
public liability and property damage insurance policy naming the licensee and the Consolidated 
City of Indianapolis as the assured and providing also for the payment of any liability imposed by 
law on such licensee or the Consolidated City of Indianapolis in the minimum amounts of one 
million dollars ($1,000,000.00) for any occurrence relative to which there is injury to or death of 
one (1) or more persons and five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00) for any occurrence 
relative to which there is property damage.   
 
(e) In the instance where a building permit is requested for the purpose of constructing a swimming 
pool, such application shall include the name of the person responsible for constructing the 
required fence or safety pool cover.   
 
(f) Except as provided in section 536-701 or 536-702, a building permit shall be issued if: 
   
(1) The application and supporting information required by this section have been properly 
prepared and submitted;   
 
(2) The application and supporting information filed in accordance with this section reflect 
compliance with building standards and procedures;   
 
(3) The fee has been paid in compliance with Article VI of this chapter;   
 
(4) The person, partnership or corporation obtaining the building permit complies with the 
requirements of section 536-202; and   
 
(5) The person applying for the building permit complies with the requirements of section 536 -
202.   
 
(g) By making payment for the building permit, the applicant and obtainer shall be deemed to 
represent and certify that the information contained in that permit is complete and accurate,

=== 334-2025 proposal document, page 8 of 20 ===
Proposal No. 334, 2025 
Page 8 
 
unless the applicant or obtainer shall within ten (10) days provide in writing to the division of 
construction and business services any additions or corrections to that information.    
 
SECTION 4.  Chapter 536 Section 209 of the Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County is deleted 
in its entirety: 
 
Sec. 536-209. - Permits obtained by a telephone communication or facsimile machine. 
(a) The administrator as assigned by the deputy director of the division may, but is not required to, 
issue a permit on the basis of information received by a telephone call over a specified telephone 
line in the office of the division of construction and business services (to which may be attached a 
recording device to make a record of all information supplied) or on the basis of an application 
submitted by facsimile machine over a specified telephone line in the office of the division.  
 
(b) To receive a permit on the basis of a telephone communication or facsimile, all of the following 
requirements must be met: 
 
(1) The person, partnership or corporation obtaining the permit and the person applying for the 
permit are eligible to obtain and apply for a building permit pursuant to section 536-202, and: 
 
a. Have accomplished construction in the consolidated city for a period of the preceding 
twelve (12) calendar months without a violation of building standards or procedures that 
caused a revocation of a building permit pursuant to  section 536-704; issuance of and 
failure to correct violations cited in a stop -work order pursuant to  section 536-705; 
issuance of an order forbidding occupancy pursuant to section 536-706; initiation of a civil 
action filed pursuant to  section 536-707; forfeiture of a licensing bond pursuant 
to section 536-708; or a judicially imposed fine or imprisonment pursuant to  section 536-
709; and 
 
b. Have over the period of the previous one hundred eighty (180) days made prompt 
payment of all building permit fees for permits issued under this chapter;  
 
(2) The construction is being accomplished in or on an existing structure;  
 
(3) The construction does not involve the demolition or removal of a structure;  
 
(4) The construction does not require the issuance of a design release by the office of the state 
building commissioner; 
 
(5) An improvement location permit, issued by the division of construction and business services, 
is not required; 
 
(6) Approval of the Marion County Health and Hospital Corporation for a private sewage disposal 
system is not required; 
 
(7) The construction does not require a drainage permit; and 
 
(8) The construction is susceptible to being accurately described without the aid of either a plot 
plan or detailed plans and specifications. 
 
(c) The following information shall be supplied over the specified telephone line in order to obtain a 
building permit under this section 536-209: 
 
(1) The name of the person telephoning (applicant); 
 
(2) The name, and listing or license number of the contractor in whose name the requested 
building permit is being issued (obtainer); 
 
(3) The address of the construction; 
 
(4) A precise description of the construction to be accomplished; and

=== 334-2025 proposal document, page 9 of 20 ===
Proposal No. 334, 2025 
Page 9 
 
 
(5) The value of the construction. 
 
(d) The obtainer of the building permit shall remit fees for the permit and for obtaining the permit by 
telephone communication or facsimile machine as provided in  section 131-501 of the Code, along 
with a written application (as provided for in  section 536-205) to the division of construction and 
business services within five (5) business days following the date of the permit's issuance by 
check or money order made payable to the controller of the City of Indianapolis. The permit 
number shall be clearly marked on the face of the check or money order. Payment shall be made 
in the office of the division or through the United States Postal Service. If mailed, the postmark on 
the envelope shall be evidence of compliance with the five -day remittance requirement. If 
payment is not received within five (5) business days, the permit shall be voidable by order of the 
administrator. If a permit issued under this section is voided, no further construction shall be 
accomplished under that permit. 
 
(e) The building permit obtained in accordance with this section shall be in full force and effect at the 
time a building permit number is furnished by the division of construction and business services 
over the telephone line to the applicant. Following the issuance of the building permit in 
accordance with this section, the division shall, as soon as conveniently possible after the 
payment of the permit fee, mail a copy of the building permit document to the applicant for the 
building permit. 
 
(f) By making payment for the building permit, the applicant and obtainer shall be deemed to 
represent and certify that the information contained in that permit is complete and accurate, 
unless the applicant or obtainer shall within ten (10) days provide in writing to the division of 
construction and business services any additions or corrections to that information. 
 
SECTION 5.  Chapter 536 Section 210 of the Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County is hereby 
amended by adding the sections that are underlined and deleting the sections that have been stricken 
through to read as follows: 
 
Sec. 536-210. Permit and file-marked plans to be available.  
 
Any person, partnership or corporation to which a building permit has been issued shall prominently 
display such permit or a document bearing the permit number provided by the division of construction and 
business services that evidences permit issuance , or, in the instance of a permit obtained by telephone 
communication, a paper bearing the authorization number,  at the job site during construction. If required 
to submit detailed plans and specifications in order to obtain a building permit such person, partnership or 
corporation shall have available for inspection at all times a copy of the detailed plans and specifications 
bearing the file mark of the division  or private provider responsible for plan review in accordance with IC 
36-7-2.5. Any change in such detailed plans and specifications, except for minor deviations that neither 
diminish structural quality nor would cause noncompliance with applicable building standards and 
procedures, shall be filed with and approved by the division prior to the time construction involving the 
change occurs.   
 
SECTION 6.  Chapter 536 Section 213 of the Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County is hereby 
amended by adding the sections that are underlined and deleting the sections that have been stricken 
through to read as follows: 
 
Sec. 536-213. Expiration of building permits by operation of law; extensions.  
 
(a) If construction, other than activity involving the removal of all or part of a structure, has not been 
commenced within one hundred eighty (180)  three hundred sixty-five (365) days from the date of 
issuance of the building permit, the permit shall expire by operation of law and shall no longer be 
of any force or effect; provided, however, the administrator as assigned by the deputy director of 
the division of construction and business services may, for good cause shown in writing, extend 
the validity of any such permit for an additional period that is reasonable under the circumstances 
to allow commencement of the construction. In no event shall the extension exceed a period of 
sixty (60) days.

=== 334-2025 proposal document, page 10 of 20 ===
Proposal No. 334, 2025 
Page 10 
 
(b) If the construction has been commenced but only partially completed, and thereafter substantially 
no construction occurs on the construction -site over a period of one hundred eighty (180) three 
hundred sixty-five (365) days, the permit shall expire by operation of law and no longer be of any 
force or effect; provided, however, the administrator may, for good cause shown in writing, extend 
the validity of any such permit for an additional period that is reasonable under the circumstances 
to allow resumption of construction.   
 
(c) If construction involving removal of a structure or part of a structure has not been completed 
within the following time periods, the building permit shall expire by operation of law and shall no 
longer be of any force or effect:   
 
(1) Removal of all or part of a Class 2, thirty (30) days after issuance; and   
 
(2) Removal of all or part of a Class 1 structure, sixty (60) days after issuance. Provided, 
however, the administrator as assigned by the deputy director of the division may, for good 
cause shown in writing, extend the validity of any such permit for an additional period that is 
reasonable under the circumstances up to forty -five (45) days in length.  for any schedule 
requested based on the scope of the project, so long as the extended schedule does not 
create a public safety concern.  
 
(d) An extension granted under this section shall be granted by the administrator as assigned by the 
deputy director of the division of construction and business services and shall be  confirmed in 
writing.   
 
(e) If an issued permit expires without the permit holder contacting the division of construction and 
business services to request an extension, the city may inspect the site to determine compliance 
with all standards applicable to the scope of work and the stage of construction.    
 
SECTION 7.  Chapter 536 Section 217 of the Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County is hereby 
amended by adding the sections that are underlined and deleting the sections that have been stricken 
through to read as follows: 
 
Sec. 536 -217. Notice of change in permit information; amendment of permits and plans.   
 
(a) After a permit has been issued, the permittee shall give prompt written notice to the administrator 
as assigned by the deputy director of the division of construction and business services of any 
addition to or change in the information contained in the permit application.   
 
(b) After a permit has been issued, any material deviation or change in  the information contained in 
the permit application, the plans and specifications, or the plot plans, or the owner, applicant, site 
contact, licensed contractor, or design professionals,  shall be considered an amendment subject 
to approval by the division. Prior to the time construction involving the change occurs, the 
permittee shall file with the division a written request for amendment, including a detailed 
statement of the requested change and the submission of any amended plans.    
 
(c) The administrator shall give the permittee written notice that the request for amendment has been 
approved or denied, and if approved, copies of the amended application or plans shall be 
attached to the original application or plans. Reinspection fees or other fees that are occasioned 
by the amendment shall be assessed and paid in the same manner as for original permits or 
plans.   
 
SECTION 8.  Chapter 536 of the Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County is hereby amended by 
adding a new Section 218 that has been underlined and shall read as follows:  
 
Sec. 536-218. - Private provider permit.  
(a) A person, partnership or corporation may elect to obtain a private provider permit to utilize third -
party private provider plan review and inspection for all construction occurring at, on, or of a Class 
2 structure in accordance with IC 36 -7-2.5. The private provider permit shall identify all 
construction to occur at, on, or of the structure and, barring any additional approvals, shall be the

=== 334-2025 proposal document, page 11 of 20 ===
Proposal No. 334, 2025 
Page 11 
 
sole permit application required to secure the building permits necessary for the scopes of work 
permitted on or of the structure.   
  
(b) The person, partnership or corporation obtaining the private provider permit shall be responsible 
for all construction occurring at the structure, including code compliance for all construction for 
which Articles II, III or IV of Chapter 875 of this Revised Code require licensure or IC 25 -28.5-1 
requires a state license.   In order to obtain a private provider permit, the person, partnership, or 
corporation must either be licensed for all the types of construction that will occur at the structure 
or identify, at the time of application, a licensed contractor and subcontractor for every type of 
construction that will occur at the structure for which Articles II, or Ill of Chapter 875 of this 
Revised Code require licensure or IC 25-28.5-1 requires a state license.  
 
SECTION 9.  Chapter 536 Section 301 of the Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County is hereby 
amended by adding the sections that are underlined and deleting the sections that have been stricken 
through to read as follows: 
 
Sec. 536-301. - Filing of certificate of completion and compliance. 
 
Within fourteen (14) days after completion of the construction for which a building permit has been 
issued pursuant to the provisions of this chapter and prior to the occupancy or use of the structure, the 
obtainer of the building permit (or an employee of the obtainer who is authorized to act for the obtainer) 
for such construction shall execute and file a certificate of completion and compliance with the division of 
construction and business services. Such certificate shall be in the following form: form prescribed by the 
division. 
CERTIFICATE OF COMPLETION AND COMPLIANCE 
Address of premises on which construction activity was accomplished:_____  
 
Permit number: _____ 
 
The undersigned person hereby certifies under the penalties for perjury that: 
1. I obtained the above referenced building permit or am an employee of the obtainer, and  
2. I am familiar with the construction accomplished pursuant to that building permit, and  
3. I know such construction has been completed with exceptions here noted _____ _____ , and  
4. I am familiar with building standards and procedures applicable to such construction, and  
5. To the best of my knowledge, information and belief such construction has been performed in 
conformity with all building standards and procedures. 
 
Date: _______ Signature: ___________ Typed or printed name___________  
 
Electrical, heating and cooling or wrecking contractor license number, plumbing contractor registration 
number, contractor listing number, or registered architect or registered engineer registration number: 
_____ 
 
If a registered architect or registered engineer has properly executed and delivered or mailed an 
architect's or engineer's certificate of completion and compliance pursuant to section 536 -303, he or she 
shall not be required to file the above certificate of completion and compliance.  
 
SECTION 10.  Chapter 536 Section 302 of the Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County is hereby 
amended by adding the sections that are underlined and deleting the sections that have been stricken 
through to read as follows: 
 
Sec. 536-302. - Filing of certificate of completion and compliance for work done under a master permit.  
 
Within fourteen (14) days after the completion of construction for which a master building permit has 
been issued pursuant to the provisions of this chapter and prior to the occupancy or use of the structure, 
the obtainer of the master permit (or an employee of the obtainer authorized to act for the obtainer) shall 
execute and file a certificate of completion for work done under a master permit with the division of 
construction and business services. All licensed or registered subcontractors who worked on the structure 
shall also execute the certificate. Such certificate shall be in the following form:  form prescribed by the 
division.

=== 334-2025 proposal document, page 12 of 20 ===
Proposal No. 334, 2025 
Page 12 
 
 
CERTIFICATE OF COMPLETION AND COMPLIANCE FOR WORK DONE UNDER A MASTER PERMIT  
Address of premises on which construction was accomplished: _____ 
Permit Number: _____ 
The undersigned person(s) hereby certify under the penalties for perjury that:  
1. I either: 
(a) Obtained the above referenced building permit (or am an employee of the obtainer); or  
(b) Am a licensed or registered subcontractor who performed work on the structure; and  
2. I am familiar with that part of the construction accomplished pursuant to that building permit that 
is indicated below; and 
3. I know the construction indicated below has been completed with exceptions noted below; and  
4. I am familiar with building standards and procedures applicable to such construction; and  
5. To the best of my knowledge, information and belief, such construction indicated below has been 
performed in conformity with all building standards and procedures. 
Structural 
Listing # 
Exception to work done 
Signature 
Typed or printed name 
Date 
 
Electrical 
License # 
Exception to work done 
Signature 
Typed or printed name 
Date 
 
Heating and Cooling 
License # 
Exception to work done 
Signature 
Typed or printed name 
Date 
 
Plumbing 
Registration # 
Exception to work done 
Signature 
Typed or printed name 
Date 
 
Wrecking 
License # 
Exception to work done 
Signature 
Typed or printed name 
Date 
 
SECTION 11.  Chapter 536 Section 303 of the Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County is hereby 
amended by adding the sections that are underlined and deleting the sections that have been stricken 
through to read as follows: 
 
Sec. 536-303. - Filing of architect's or engineer's certificate of completion and compliance.  
 
Within fourteen (14) days after the completion of construction for which a building permit was issued 
pursuant to this chapter and for which review and monitoring of construction by an architect or engineer is 
required by the rules of the fire prevention and building safety commission, the architect or engineer who 
observed the construction accomplished pursuant to the permit shall execute and file an architect's or

=== 334-2025 proposal document, page 13 of 20 ===
Proposal No. 334, 2025 
Page 13 
 
engineer's certificate of completion and compliance with the division of construction and business 
services in the form prescribed by the division. following form:   
 
ARCHITECT'S AND ENGINEER'S CERTIFICATE OF COMPLETION AND COMPLIANCE  
Address of construction: _____ 
Permit number: _____ 
The undersigned architect or engineer hereby states under penalties for perjury that:  
1. I have made reasonable and periodic observation of the above mentioned construction project 
to determine whether the work accomplished is in accordance with the plans and specifications 
for this project as released by the Office of the State Building Commissioner and whether the 
work accomplished is in compliance with rules promulgated by the Indiana Fire Prevention and 
Building Safety Commission and provisions of Chapter 536 of the Revised Code of the 
Consolidated City and County, with the following exceptions hereafter noted: _____  
2. I am familiar with such building standards and the provisions of Chapter 536 applicable to the 
work accomplished; and 
3. To the best of my knowledge, information and belief such work has been accomplished in 
conformity with such building standards promulgated by the Office of the State Building 
Commissioner and the provisions of Article III of Chapter 536. 
Date: _______ 
Signature: _____ 
SEAL 
Typed name: _____ 
Architect No.: _____ 
Engineer No.: _____ 
Indiana Registration No.: _____ 
Address: _____ 
Phone number: _____ 
 
SECTION 12.  Chapter 536 of the Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County is hereby amended by 
adding a new Section 304 that has been underlined and shall read as follows: 
 
Sec. 536 -304 Filing a certificate of completion and compliance for work done under a private provider 
permit.   
 
Within fourteen (14) days after the completion of construction for which a private provider building 
permit has been issued pursuant to the provisions of this chapter and prior to the occupancy or use of the 
structure, the obtainer of the private provider permit or an employee of the obtainer authorized to act for 
the obtainer, shall execute and file a certificate of completion for work done under the permit with the 
division of construction and business services. Such certificate shall be in the form prescribed by the 
division of construction and business services and shall be filed to accompany the private provider’s 
inspection report when private provider services are utilized in accordance with IC 36 -7-2.5. In instances 
where a private provider permit may require building inspections performed by city staff or a designee, a 
certificate of completion is required. 
 
SECTION 13.  Chapter 536 Section 401 of the Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County is hereby 
amended by adding the sections that are underlined and deleting the sections that have been stricken 
through to read as follows: 
 
Sec. 536-401. General authority to make investigations and inspections.  
 
The administrator as assigned by the deputy director of the division of construction and business 
services or his or her authorized representative may at any reasonable time go in, upon, around or about 
the premises where any structure or building equipment subject to the provisions of this chapter or to the 
rules of the fire prevention and building safety commission is located (irrespective of whether a building 
permit has been or is required to be obtained) for the purpose of investigation and inspection of such 
structure or building equipment. Such investigation and inspection may be made either before or after 
construction on the project is completed for the purposes of determining whether the structure or building 
equipment meets building standards and procedures, and ascertaining whether the construction and 
procedures have been accomplished in a manner consistent with a certificate filed pursuant to sections 
536-301, 536 -302, 536 -303, 565-304, or 536 -404(b)(3). All construction shall be subject to periodic

=== 334-2025 proposal document, page 14 of 20 ===
Proposal No. 334, 2025 
Page 14 
 
inspections, and reasonable efforts to afford an opportunity for investigation and inspection of the 
structure or building equipment by the division of construction and business services shall be made by 
persons working on or having control of the construction. However, nothing in this section shall be 
construed to require the administrator to make inspections and investigations.   
 
SECTION 14.  Chapter 536 Section 402 of the Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County is hereby 
amended by adding the sections that are underlined and deleting the sections that have been stricken 
through to read as follows: 
 
Sec. 536-402. Notice of availability for inspection as a condition to the accomplishment of further work.  
 
(a) Whenever a stage of construction is reached that is designated below, the person, partnership or 
corporation that obtained the permit shall be under a duty to give appropriate notice to the 
administrator as assigned by the deputy director of the division of construction and business 
services that the construction is available for inspection.  
  
(b) Relative to the construction of, remodeling of or addition to a structure, notice of availability is 
required, as applicable, for:  
  
(1) A "foundation inspection" after poles or piers are set, trenches or basement areas excavated, 
any required reinforcing steel is in place, but prior to the placing of concrete; and   
 
(2) A "frame and masonry inspection" after the roof, masonry, all framing, firestopping and 
bracings are in place and all electrical wiring, pipes, chimneys and vents are complete, but 
prior to the interior covering of walls.   
 
(c) Relative to the installation, modernization or replacement of building equipment (including but not 
limited to plumbing work for which licensure is required by the Indiana Plumbing Commission, or 
work on electrical power distribution systems, heating systems, space heating equipment, cooling 
systems or space cooling equipment), notice of availability for a separate "rough inspection" is 
required, as applicable, for each of the three (3) crafts after installation, but prior to the covering 
or concealment thereof and before fixtures are set.   
 
(d) Relative to demolition or removal of a structure, notice of availability for a "fill inspection" is 
required (in the instance when a basement or subgrade chamber exists) after demolition or 
removal and prior to placing fill.   
 
(e) The administrator or the administrator 's authorized representative may, relative to any 
construction, add a reasonable number of other construction stages by communicating the 
additional stage requirements to the person obtaining the building permit for that construction.   
 
(f) Notice of availability shall be given  either by the scheduling systems utilized by the division for 
such a purpose.  telephone communication over a specified telephone line in the office of the 
division of construction and business services (to which may be attached a recording device to 
make a record of all information supplied), by electronic means, by hand -delivered written notice 
or by a letter delivered by the United States Postal Service.   
 
(g) If a private provider is being utilized to perform inspection services of a Class 2 structure in 
accordance with IC 36 -7-2.5, the division of construction and business services does not require 
notice of availability for inspection. In lieu of compliance with 536 -402 (a), (b) and (c), upon the 
completion of construction, the private provider permit holder shall submit documentation 
demonstrating that the applicable inspections were performed in a form prescribed by the division 
of construction and business services. The documentation shall be submitted to the division of 
construction and business services as part of the private provider’s complete inspection report in 
accordance with 536-304 and IC 36-7-2.5. 
 
SECTION 15.  Chapter 536 Section 404 of the Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County is hereby 
amended by adding the sections that are underlined and deleting the sections that have been stricken 
through to read as follows:

=== 334-2025 proposal document, page 15 of 20 ===
Proposal No. 334, 2025 
Page 15 
 
Sec. 536-404. Connection, provision or use of electrical power.  
 
(a) No person, partnership or corporation shall accomplish or allow the connection, provision or use 
of electrical power relative to an electrical power distribution system in or on a structure where 
construction (for which a building permit has been or is required to be obtained pursuant to this 
chapter) has been accomplished, until after an inspection has been made and a distinctive sticker 
(signifying the electrical power distribution system may be used) has been attached to each 
service equipment by the administrator as assigned by the deputy director or the administrator's 
authorized representative. It shall be unlawful for any person other than the administrator or the 
administrator's authorized representative to use, complete, apply or alter such sticker.    
 
(b) As an alternative to section 536-404(a), the administrator as assigned by the deputy director of 
the division of construction and business services may allow the connection, provision or use of 
electrical power on the basis of certification by a person who is a licensed electrical contractor if 
all of the following requirements are met:   
 
(1) After the completion of the work and before use of the electrical power distribution system is 
initiated, the licensed electrical contractor who applied for the building permit shall 
communicate over a specified telephone line in the office of the division of construction and 
business services during business hours (to which the division of construction and business 
services may attach a recording device to make a record of all information supplied) the 
following information:   
 
a. The name of the person telephoning;   
 
b. The electrical contractor license number of the person telephoning;  
  
c. The address of the affected premises;   
 
d. The building permit number under which the construction was accomplished; and   
 
e. The serial number of the electrical craft work certificate of compliance form to be used.    
 
(2) If such information is in order and if the licensed electrical contractor has accomplished 
construction for a period of the preceding twelve (12) calendar months without violation of 
building standards or procedures that in the discretion of the administrator are of sufficient 
seriousness to make the contractor ineligible to use the certificate, the division of construction 
and business services shall indicate over the specified telephone line authorization to attach 
a certificate to each service equipment and assign an authorization number to be placed on 
each certificate by the licensee.   
 
(3) A certificate, in the form prescribed by the division of construction and business services.  
following form, must then be executed and attached to each service equipment as a 
precondition to the connection, provision or use of electrical power.   
  
ELECTRICAL CRAFT WORK CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE 
 
Address of the craft work:   
Serial number:   
Permit number:   
Authorization number:   
The undersigned licensee hereby certifies under the penalties for perjury that:    
 
1. I am an electrical contractor licensed in accordance with Chapter 875 of the Revised Code of 
Indianapolis-Marion County, Indiana;   
2. I am responsible for the proper completion of the construction which is the subject of the above 
referenced building permit as applicant for the permit or applicant representing the transferee 
of the permit; and   
3. I have either personally accomplished or personally inspected all such construction, or in the 
alternative, I have caused the construction to be inspected by a responsible and competent

=== 334-2025 proposal document, page 16 of 20 ===
Proposal No. 334, 2025 
Page 16 
 
employee who works under my direction and control, who has fully reported to me the 
condition of the construction; and   
4. I know that such construction is in condition for immediate connection on the date stated 
below; and   
5. I am familiar with building standards and procedures applicable to such construction; and    
6. I know that such construction has been done in compliance with all building standards and 
procedures; and   
7. I acknowledge and understand that if such construction is done in violation of building 
standards and procedures, that under the provisions of Chapter 875 my electrical contractor's 
license may be suspended or revoked.   
 
Date certificate attached to service equipment:   
Signature:   
Electrical contractor license number:   
Typed or printed name:   
 
After the signatory attaches a certificate to each service equipment, such person shall cause 
a duplicate copy of each certificate to be either delivered to the division of construction and 
business services or postmarked no later than the next business day by the United States 
Postal Service.   
 
(c) It shall be unlawful for any person, partnership or corporation to accomplish the connection, 
provision or use of electrical power relative to an electrical power distribution system without first 
receiving authorization from the division of construction and business services either by 
telephone communication and attachment of an electrical craft work certificate of completion and 
compliance or by the distinctive sticker described in section 536-404(a).   
 
(d) Nothing stated in this section shall be construed to deny the right of the division of construction 
and business services to inspect the electrical power distribution system to which electrical power 
is connected either before or after such connection is made or before or after the electrical power 
distribution system is used.   
 
(e) Electrical craft work certificates of completion and compliance may be purchased only by a 
licensed electrical contractor who is eligible to use such forms from the division of construction 
and business services, for a fee specified in Article VI of this chapter. Each certificate form shall 
bear a different serialized number that shall be recorded by the division along with the name and 
licensure number of the electrical contractor who purchases the form. The certificate may only be 
signed and attached by the licensed electrical contractor who purchased it from the division. It 
shall be unlawful to sell or transfer such certificate and unlawful to use, complete, sign or attach 
such a certificate except as prescribed in this section.   
 
SECTION 16.  Chapter 536 Section 405 of the Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County is hereby 
amended by adding the sections that are underlined and deleting the sections that have been stricken 
through to read as follows: 
 
Sec. 536-405. Inspection of Class 2 structures at request of owner.  
 
An owner of a Class 2 structure or a contract purchaser of such a structure who occupies the 
structure may request the division of construction and business services to inspect  ongoing construction 
or construction that has been completed within the preceding ninety (90) days on that structure. The 
request may be made irrespective of whether a building permit was required, or if required, whether a 
permit was obtained. The division of construction and business services shall accomplish an inspection if 
reasonably practicable. The person requesting the inspection must be willing to be present during the 
inspection. No charge shall be made for the inspection.   
 
SECTION 17.  Chapter 536 Section 609 of the Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County is hereby 
amended by adding the sections that are underlined and deleting the sections that have been stricken 
through to read as follows:

=== 334-2025 proposal document, page 17 of 20 ===
Proposal No. 334, 2025 
Page 17 
 
Sec. 536-609. Administrative fee.  
 
(a) To compensate the department of business and neighborhood services for the administrative 
expenses incurred by its divisions as listed in this section, a fee provided in section 131 -501 of 
the Code may be assessed at the discretion of the deputy director in charge of the division of 
construction and business services (in accordance with a written policy established by the deputy 
director) against a person, partnership, or corporation relative to construction for which the 
person, partnership, or corporation has obtained a building permit, and:   
 
(1) Notice was not given that construction was available for inspection within the time period 
required by section 536-402 and the construction is no longer available for inspection;   
 
(2) Notice was given pursuant to section 536 -402 that construction was available for inspection, 
and:   
 
a. The construction could not be found because the construction address provided on the 
permit application was incorrect;   
 
b. The construction was not accessible when the inspector attempted to make the 
requested inspection at the time agreed upon for the inspection (or if no time was agreed 
upon, between 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. Monday through Friday on a day that is not a 
holiday);  
  
c. The construction was not yet sufficiently completed for an inspection to be made; or    
 
d. The construction was covered or otherwise concealed and therefore not available for 
inspection;   
 
(3) A notice of correction was issued to the person, partnership, or corporation and either no 
response from the person, partnership, or corporation was made within the time specified for 
reinspection or the person, partnership; or corporation requested reinspection of corrections 
and the corrections were not properly completed; or   
 
(4) A certificate required by section 536 -301, 536 -302, 536 -303, 565 -304, or 536 -404 was not 
filed within the time period required by those sections.   
 
(b) To compensate the department of business and neighborhood services for the administrative 
expenses incurred by its divisions as listed in this section, a fee provided in section 131 -501 of 
the Code may be assessed at the discretion of the deputy director in charge of the division of 
construction and business services of the department of business and neighborhood services (in 
accordance with a written policy established by the deputy director), as follows:   
  
(1) Against a person, partnership, or corporation when an inspection reveals that construction 
has started or is completed that requires a permit and that a permit was not obtained prior to 
the time of inspection;   
 
(2) Against a contractor when an inspection reveals that construction has started or is completed 
that requires notification under section 536 -216 and notification was not obtained and posted 
prior to the time of inspection;   
 
(3) Against a person, partnership, or corporation relative to construction for which a building 
permit is not required when an inspection visit to the construction address is needed because 
the inspector receives information that there exists a substantive violation of the building 
standards and procedures, resulting in the issuance of a notice of correction;   
  
(4) If a certificate required by section 536 -301, 536-302, 536-303, 565-304, or 536-404 was not 
filed with the division of construction and business services, the permit has expired for a 
period of more than thirty (30) days, and a request for renewal of the permit provided for in 
section 536-616 was not requested prior to the issuance of the administrative fee; and

=== 334-2025 proposal document, page 18 of 20 ===
Proposal No. 334, 2025 
Page 18 
 
(5) Against a person, partnership, or corporation relative to zoning violations when any 
subsequent inspection visit to the address is needed because a violation has not been 
corrected and a notice of violation or citation has been issued.   
 
(c) The chief financial officer in charge of the division of administrative and financial operations of the 
department of business and neighborhood services, or his or her designee, may, at his or her 
discretion, waive all or any part of an administrative fee assessed under this section when such 
fee was assessed in error or when mitigating circumstances indicate the appropriateness of 
waiving all or part of the reinspection fee.   
 
SECTION 18.  Chapter 536 Section 620 of the Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County is hereby 
amended by adding the sections that are underlined and deleting the sections that have been stricken 
through to read as follows: 
 
Sec. 536-620. Fees for plan review.  
 
A non-refundable fee is due upon submission of an application for services rendered in the review of 
plans, regardless of whether a permit is ultimately issued. The fee shall be determined as provided in 
section 131-501 of the Code or as provided in IC 36-7-2.5 for private provider permits.  
 
SECTION 19.  Chapter 537 of the Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County is hereby amended by 
adding new Sections 537 -12, 537-13, 537-14 and 537 -15 that have been underlined and shall read as 
follows: 
 
Sec. 537-12. Repair order hearings.  
 
1. An order issued under IC 36 -7-9-5(a)(5) (“order to repair” or “repair order) becomes final ninety 
(90) days from the order issuance date, unless a hearing under IC 36 -7-9-7 is requested before 
the ninety (90) day period ends.  
 
2. If a hearing under IC 36 -7-9-7 is not requested before the ninety (90) day period ends, and civil 
penalties are assessed for failure to comply with the repair order pursuant to IC 36 -7-9-7.5, an 
informal civil penalty dispute hearing before the director of the department of business and 
neighborhood services, or their designee, to dispute the existence of a violation and/or the 
amount of civil penalties assessed, can be requested within thirty (30) days of the penalty being 
assessed.   
 
3. If a hearing under IC 36 -7-9-7 is not requested before the ninety (90) day period ends, civil 
penalties are assessed for failure to comply with the repair order pursuant to IC 36 -7-9-7.5, and 
the structure is in compliance with the repair order, an informal civil penalty review hearing before 
the director of the department of business and neighborhood services, or his or her designee, to 
dispute the amount of civil penalties assessed, can be requested within four (4) years of the order 
issuance date.  
 
4. All hearing requests must be submitted in a manner approved by the division. After each informal 
hearing, the director of the department of business and neighborhood services, or his or her 
designee, shall determine the existence of a violation and/or the amount of civil penalties 
assessed and shall notify the recipient of any amounts due to the department. The decision of the 
director, or his or her designee, shall be final.  
 
Sec. 537-13. Civil penalty dispute hearing eligibility.  
 
The hearing requestor must be the current property owner of record with the Marion County 
Assessor’s Office; and the civil penalties were either paid, or to be paid, by the requestor.   
 
1. Tax sale buyers are eligible for a civil penalty dispute hearing once ownership of the property has 
been transferred to the tax sale buyer. The division shall waive civil penalties assessed during the 
tax sale redemption period upon receipt of written request from the tax sale buyer, when property 
ownership has been transferred to the tax sale buyer and all other civil penalty review hearing

=== 334-2025 proposal document, page 19 of 20 ===
Proposal No. 334, 2025 
Page 19 
 
eligibility requirements are met at the time the request is received, without requiring a civil penalty 
dispute or review hearing.  
 
2. Contract buyers and other parties with a recorded interest in the property are not eligible for a civil 
penalty dispute hearing, unless:  
 
a. The current property owner of record with the Marion County Assessor’s Office requests a 
hearing on the party’s behalf;  
 
b. The current property owner of record with the Marion County Assessor’s Office submits an 
affidavit provided by the division that authorizes the party to request the hearing; or  
 
c. A copy of an instrument recorded with the Marion County Recorder’s Office, showing the 
requestor’s recorded interest in the property, is provided to the division.  
 
3. The following civil penalties are not eligible for a civil penalty dispute hearing:   
 
a. Civil penalties that were paid, or are to be paid, by a party other than the requesting party;   
 
b. Civil penalties paid as part of a property transaction, including, but not limited to, civil 
penalties paid as part of a willing bid for tax sale, surplus sale, Sheriff’s sale, foreclosure, any 
other auction, or purchase price or closing costs of the property; or  
 
c. Civil penalties for which a civil penalty dispute hearing was already decided.  
 
Sec. 537-14. Civil penalty review hearing eligibility.  
 
The hearing requestor must be the current property owner of record with the Marion County 
Assessor’s Office; and the civil penalties were either paid, or to be paid, by the requestor. Prior owners 
and prior interested parties that did not bring the structure into compliance with the repair order, 
regardless of whether civil penalties were paid prior to the property transfer, are not eligible for a civil 
penalty review hearing.  
 
1. Tax sale buyers are eligible for a civil penalty review hearing once ownership of the property has 
been transferred to the tax sale buyer. The division shall waive civil penalties assessed during the 
tax sale redemption period upon receipt of written request from the tax sale buyer, when property 
ownership has been transferred to the tax sale buyer and all other civil penalty review hearing 
eligibility requirements are met at the time the request is received, without requiring a civil penalty 
dispute or review hearing.   
 
2. Contract buyers and other parties with a recorded interest in the property are not eligible for a civil 
review dispute hearing, unless:  
 
a. The current property owner of record with the Marin County Assessor’s Office requests a 
hearing on the party’s behalf;  
 
b. The current property owner of record with the Marion County Assessor’s Office submits 
an affidavit provided by the division that authorizes the party to request the hearing; or   
 
c. A copy of an instrument recorded with the Marion County Recorder’s Office, showing the 
requestor’s recorded interest in the property, is provided to the division. 
 
3. The following civil penalties are not eligible for a civil penalty review hearing:  
  
a. Civil penalties that were paid, or are to be paid, by a party other than the requesting 
party; or  
 
b. Civil penalties paid as part of a property transaction, including, but not limited to, civil 
penalties paid as part of a willing bid for tax sale, surplus sale, Sherriff’s sale, foreclosure, 
or any other auction, or purchase price or closing costs of the property.

=== 334-2025 proposal document, page 20 of 20 ===
Proposal No. 334, 2025 
Page 20 
 
 
Sec. 537-15 Repair Order Compliance Waiver. 
 
When compliance has been met during the life of a repair order, and the division has closed the 
active repair order as compliant, all penalties and liens incurred during that order shall be waived. Only 
penalties paid by the current property owner during the active order shall be refunded. Prior owners and 
prior interested parties that did not bring the structure into compliance with the repair order, regardless of 
whether civil penalties were paid prior to the property transfer, are not eligible. Previously closed and/or 
expired repair orders are not eligible. This waiver will be granted upon closure of the order and does not 
require a civil penalty hearing. 
 
SECTION 20. The expressed or implied repeal or amendment by this ordinance of any other ordinance or 
part of any other ordinance does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred, or 
proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this ordinance. Those rights, liabilities, and proceedings 
are continued, and penalties shall be imposed and enforced under the repealed or amended ordinance as 
if this ordinance had not been adopted. 
 
SECTION 21. Should any provision (section, paragraph, sentence, clause, or any other portion) of this 
ordinance be declared by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, the remaining 
provision or provisions shall not be affected, if and only if such remaining provisions can, without the 
invalid provision or provisions, be given the effect intended by the Council in adopting this ordinance. To 
this end the provisions of this ordinance are severable. 
 
SECTION 22 . This ordinance shall be in effect from and after January 1, 2026, by the Council and 
compliance with Ind. Code § 36-3-4-14. 
 
The foregoing was passed by the City -County Council this _____ day of __________, 2025, at _____ 
p.m. 
 
ATTEST: 
 
 _____________________________________  
 Vop Osili 
 President, City-County Council 
____________________________________ 
Yulonda Winfield 
Clerk, City-County Council 
 
Presented by me to the Mayor this _____ day of ____________, 2025, at 10:00 a.m. 
 
 _____________________________________ 
 Yulonda Winfield 
 Clerk, City-County Council 
 
Approved and signed by me this _____ day of ____________, 2025. 
 
 ____________________________________ 
 Joseph H. Hogsett, Mayor
