=== 334-2024 proposal document, page 1 of 24 (OCR) ===
CITY-COUNTY GENERAL ORDINANCE NO. 37, 2024
Proposal No. 334, 2024

PROPOSAL FOR A GENERAL ORDINANCE to amend various sections of the Revised Code of the
Consolidated City and County to reflect the actions of General Ordinance No. 33, 2024, which created the
Indianapolis Animal Care Services Agency.

BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA:

sections that are underlined and deleting the sections that have been ees to read as follows:

Sec. 226-202. - Duties of the director.
(a) The director of the department of business and neighborhood services shall:
(1) Supervise and coordinate the activities of divisions within the department;
(2) Oversee the daily operations of the department;
(3) Prepare and submit the department's budget to the controller as required by IC 36-3-6-4;
(4) Appoint a deputy director or administrator to manage each division subject to the approval of

the mayor as provided in IC 36-3-5-5, and approve the appointment of bureau administrators
as provided in Article III of this chapter;

(5) Approve the hiring and dismissal of the personnel of the department subject to the limitations
prescribed by law and rules adopted by the mayor as provided in IC 36-3-5-5(c);

(6) Manage the personnel of the department;

(7) Delegate to the personnel of the department authority to act on behalf of the director as
provided in IC 36-3-5-5(c);

(8) Execute contracts subject to the authority of the mayor and any other limitations prescribed by
law;

(9) Procure for the consolidated city a set of the weights and measures provided in IC 24-6-2-1;
and

(10)Exercise any other powers that may be granted by statute or ordinance or delegated by the
mayor.

(b) The consolidated city of Indianapolis and Marion County through its department of business and
neighborhood services shall be the successor in interest to all contracts executed by the
consolidated city of Indianapolis and Marion County through its department of code enforcement.

Sec. 226-203. - Divisions and bureaus.

The department of business and neighborhood services shall be composed of the following divisions
and bureaus, as provided in Article II, Article Ill, Article IV, Article V, and Article VI of this chapter:

(1) The division of construction and business services, which shall be organized into bureaus and
provide the following services:

a. Construction and use permitting;

=== 334-2024 proposal document, page 2 of 24 (OCR) ===
G.O. No. 37, 2024
Page 2

b. Business licensing; and
c. Construction inspections.

(2) The division of property and land use services, which shall be organized into bureaus and
provide the following services:

Unsafe building program;
Environmental inspections;
Business and use inspections.

oop

(4)_(3) The division of administrative and financial operations, which shall provide the following
services:

a. Administration services;
b. Financial services; and
c. Logistical services.

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2024

=== 334-2024 proposal document, page 3 of 24 (OCR) ===
Page 3

G.O. No. 37, 2024

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2024

=== 334-2024 proposal document, page 4 of 24 (OCR) ===
vZ07 GYODAY JDNVNIGHO IVYANID

{fe -Sxyeta 6

HA
FarAN

{e}-Se-teseys- ete

py obed

yZ0 ‘LE ON ‘O'D

=== 334-2024 proposal document, page 5 of 24 (OCR) ===
G.O. No. 37, 2024
Page 5

CHAPTER 135 - FUNDS
ARTICLE Ill. - NONREVERTING CITY FUNDS
DIVISION 9. - ANIMAL CARE SERVICES SHELTER FUND

Sec. 135-391. - Animal care services shelter fund.

There is hereby created a special fund to be designated the "animal care services shelter fund" for the
purpose of programming, diversion efforts, marketing, and shelter operations. promoting-spay-and neuter
programs. The fund shall be administered by the Indianapolis Animal Care Services Agency departmentof
business-and neighborheed-services. The fund shall consist of the fees collected from non-Marion County
residents pursuant to section 226-512, or any other funding source not otherwise prohibited by law. This
fund shall be a continuing, non-reverting fund with all balances remaining therein at the end of the year.
Such balances shall not lapse into the consolidated county fund or be diverted for uses other than those
stated in this section.

CHAPTER 531 — ANIMALS

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2024

=== 334-2024 proposal document, page 6 of 24 (OCR) ===
G.O. No. 37, 2024
Page 6

ARTICLE I. - GENERAL PROVISIONS
Sec. 531-101. - Definitions.
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section.

Animal means any living, nonhuman vertebrate creature.

Animal care services shelter means the shelter described in section 226-542 288-103 of this Code.

At large means being loose and free roaming, not being on a leash and under the control of a competent
person, or any portion of the animal's body not being confined within a pen, corral, yard, cage, house,
vehicle, or other secure enclosure or structure or by other means that prevents escape.

Community cat means an unowned cat that has been captured, evaluated, ear tipped, sterilized and
vaccinated against rabies by a licensed veterinarian and released in accordance with section 531-209 of
this Code.

Community cat caretaker means a person that provides food, water or outdoor areas of shelter to a
community cat and who is not otherwise prohibited from owning or keeping animals.

Crime prevention dog means and includes a dog that is trained and used by its owner or keeper primarily
for the protection of persons or property, or both.

Dangerous animal means any animal that:

(1) Would constitute a danger to human life or property if it were not kept in the manner required by
this chapter;

(2) Has caused serious injury to a person without having been provoked by that person;

(3) At a place other than its owner's or keepers property has:
a. Chased or approached a person in a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack; or

b. Attacked another domestic animal; or
(4) Because of its training or behavior, is capable of inflicting physical harm or death to humans.

Dog means and includes animals of the Canis familiaris species, and hybrids of a Canis familiaris and any
other member of the Canis genus, including wolves.

Domestic animals means rabbits, cattle, horses, ponies, mules, donkeys, jackasses, llamas, swine, sheep,
goats, dogs, cats and poultry.

Exposed to rabies means an animal has been exposed to rabies if it has been bitten by or been in contact
with any animal known or reasonably suspected to have been infected with rabies.

Free-roaming cat means a cat that is at large that does not possess an identification tag or microchip as
required by section 501-202 of this Code nor has been ear tipped to indicate it is a community cat.

Kennel means a facility operated commercially and principally for the purpose of boarding, housing,
breeding or training dogs or cats, or both. For purposes of this chapter, kennel shall not include a facility in
or adjoining a private residence where dogs or cats are kept for the hobby of the owner, lessee or other

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2024

=== 334-2024 proposal document, page 7 of 24 (OCR) ===
G.O. No. 37, 2024
Page 7

occupant of the property using the animals for hunting, practice tracking, ex ng in shows or field or
obedience trials or for the guarding or protecting of the property, and an occasional sale of pups or kittens
by the owner, lessee or other occupant of the property shall not make such property a kennel for the
purposes of this chapter.

Law enforcement animal means an animal that is owned or used by a law enforcement agency for the
purpose of aiding in the detection of criminal activity, enforcement of laws, the apprehension of offenders
and ensuring the public welfare.

Monitored means that the animal:
(1) Is controlled by means of a leash or other device held by a competent person, subject to the
provisions of sections 531-401 and 531-728, which animal is sufficiently near the owner or handler
as to be under his or her direct control and is obedient to that person's command;

(2) Is on or within a vehicle being driven or parked; or
(3) Is confined as required by this chapter.

Nonbite exposure means and includes scratches, abrasions, open wounds or mucous membranes
contaminated with saliva or other potentially infectious material from a rabid animal.

Own means to keep, harbor or have custody, charge or control of an animal, and owner means any person
who owns an animal; however:
(1) Veterinarians and operators of kennels, pet shops and stables, as those terms are defined in
Chapter 836 of this Code, who temporarily keep animals owned by, or held for sale to other persons
shall not be deemed to own or be owners, but rather to be keepers of such animals.

(2) A community cat caretaker shall not be deemed to own or keep a community cat but rather to
provide limited oversight of such animals.

Person means and includes any individual, corporation, partnership or other association or organization,
but shall exclude the following for purposes of section 531-401:
(1) Police officers, federal or state armed forces, park rangers, game wardens, conservation officers
and other such governmental agencies, with respect to actions that constitute a discharge of their
official duties; and

(2) An individual, partnership, corporation or other association, organization, or institution of higher
education, that is registered as a research facility with the United States Secretary of Agriculture
under 7 USC § 2131 et seq., commonly known as the "Animal Welfare Act," while engaged in the
course of their performance as such.

Provoke means the infliction of bodily harm on the animal or another person, or conduct that constitutes a
substantial step toward the infliction of bodily harm on the animal or another person.

Quarantining authority means the animal care services agency department-of business-and neighborhood

services, its contractors, agents, employees and designees, acting under directives and regulations of the
Health and Hospital Corporation of Marion County or the state board of animal health.

Serious injury means any injury that results in permanent disfigurement, unconsciousness, extreme pain,
or permanent or protracted loss or impairment of the function of a bodily member or organ and includes, in
regard to an animal, an injury requiring euthanasia.
Veterinarian means a person licensed to practice veterinary medicine in the state.
Wild animal means and includes:
(1) A Class III wild animal for which a state permit is required under 310 IAC 3.1-11-8 and/or IC 14-22-
26; and

(2) A venomous snake, poisonous amphibian, or other large reptile.

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2024

=== 334-2024 proposal document, page 8 of 24 (OCR) ===
G.O. No. 37, 2024
Page 8

Sec. 531-102. - Animals at large prohibited; penalties.

(a)

(b)

An owner or keeper of an animal commits a violation of the Code if that animal is at large in the
city.

Except as provided in subsection (c) of this section, section 531-501 or section 531-727, the first
violation in any twelve-month period shall be subject to an admission of violation and payment of
the designated civil penalty through the ordinance violations bureau in accordance with Chapter
103 of the Code. All subsequent violations in a twelve-month period are subject to the enforcement
procedures provided in section 103-3 of the Code and a fine of not less than one hundred dollars
($100.00) per violation.

If, while the animal is at large in violation of this section atetecation-other than its-owners-oF

(1) Attacks another animal; or

(2) Chases or approaches a person in a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack;

then the violation shall be subject to the enforcement procedures and penalties provided in section
103-3 of the Code, and the fine imposed shall not be less than two hundred and fifty dollars
($250.00), or five hundred dollars ($500.00) if another animal or person is injured as a result of the
animal's actions. If the violation results in serious injury to any person, the court upon request shall
order the animal forfeited and/or destroyed.

ARTICLE Il. - DOGS AND CATS

Sec. 531-202. - Permanent identification of dogs and cats required.

(a)

(b)

(c)

A person who owns a dog or cat in the consolidated city and county shall ensure that each dog or
cat owned by that person bears a permanent means of identification at all times, such that the
animal's owner can be ascertained accurately, quickly, and easily.

The identification required by this section shall be in addition to any tags required to be worn by
dogs or cats by state law or other provision of this Code, and shall be either by means of a microchip
implanted in the dog or cat or animal that bears a registered identification number, and that can be
read by a standard microchip scanner; or

Each veterinarian or other person in the consolidated city and county who implants microchips as
contemplated in this section shall make available upon request to the animal care services division
the names, addresses, and phone numbers of the owners of the dogs and cats, and the

correspon microchip identification numbers. Such records shall be available to the animal care
services OoEaTeES without court order.

Sec. 531-205. - Unlawful care for a free-roaming cat.

It shall be unlawful for a person to provide food, water or shelter to a free-roaming cat for a period of more
than sixty ash as unless in compliance with sections 531-209 and 531-210 of this Code. The animal care

services

may impound community cats in violation of this chapter and dispose of the cats

in accordance with section 531-731.

Sec. 531-208. - Lost or stray domestic animals.

(a)

Persons finding a stray animal are to notify the animal care services age
designee, within forty-eight (48) hours. At the discretion of the agenc
kept by the finder and a found report left with the agency divis
Bier an Opportunity {5 cote the animal to its ODE owner.

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2024

=== 334-2024 proposal document, page 9 of 24 (OCR) ===
(b)

(c)

(d)

G.O. No. 37, 2024
Page 9

Upon demand, by the animal care services agency division, any found animal will be taken to an
appropriate facility and scanned for an identifying microchip.

Persons finding an animal are obligated to comply with all the rules and regulations of this chapter
pertaining to humane care and treatment of animals, while said animal is in theif custody awaiting
return to its actual owner.

With the exception of the Humane Society of Indianapolis or other humane and/or breed rescue
organizations recognized by the animal care services SESROPERERE, the finder will be considered
the found animal's owner for purposes of this chapter fourteen (14) continuous days after the found
report was filed with the animal care services or its designee.

Sec. 531-209. - Community cat program.

(a)

(b)

(c)

A community cat program is established in order to encourage the stabilization of the free-roaming
cat population in the city by utilizing a trap, neuter, and return methodology.

A person may trap any free-roaming cat in a humane manner, utilizing a live release trap that does
not injure the animal, and in accordance with the requirements of section 531-407 in order to have
the free-roaming cat evaluated, surgically sterilized, ear-tipped, and vaccinated against rabies by
a licensed veterinarian and released to the vicinity from where it was trapped or released to a
community cat caretaker.

A community cat, impounded by the animal care services agency division, shall be returned to the
vicinity from where it was trapped unless the circumstances present a detriment to the cat or to the
public health or welfare.

Sec. 531-210. - Community cat caretaker responsibilities.

(a)

(b)

(c)

A community cat caretaker shall abide by standard guidelines devised by the animal care services
agehey aniston regarding the provision of food, water, shelter and veterinary care for a community
cat as well as comply with section 531-209 of this Code.

Community cat caretakers shall take a seriously ill or injured community cat to the animal care
services shelter or seek licensed veterinarian care for the community cat.

A person who violates any provision of this section shall be punishable as provided in section 103-
3 of this Code; provided, however, a fine imposed for the first such violation shall not be less than
twenty-five dollars ($25.00).

Sec. 531-305. - Finding of rabies; general quarantine.

(a)

When an animal quarantined in the city has been found rabid or is suspected of being ra
veterinarian and dies while under observation, the quarantining authority shall take such action as
is specified in such cases by the state board of animal health and shall notify the proper publi
health officials of reports of human contacts made by, and the diagnosis made of, the animal.

When a rabies report is made under subsection (a) of this section, the quarantining authority shall
recommend to the director of the animal car ces agency—department-of _business—and
neighberheed-senvices a general quarantine in the city for a period of thirty (30) days. Upon
invocation of the general quarantine by the director, any animal found at large in the city may be
destroyed without being impounded. During the quarantine period, every animal bitten or exposed
through nonbite exposure by an animal adjudged to be rabid shall be confined, at its owner's
expense, or destroyed as specified by the state board of animal health.

During a general quarantine declared by the director under this section, an animal's owner or
keeper who resists the quarantining authority acting under this chapter, or who permits an animal
owned or kept by that person to be at large in the city, shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2024

=== 334-2024 proposal document, page 10 of 24 (OCR) ===
G.O. No. 37, 2024
Page 10

five hundred dollars ($500.00), and any animal which is suspected of being rabid or is in violation
of the general quarantine shall be impounded.

ARTICLE IV. - CARE AND TREATMENT

Sec. 531-401. - General requirements for animal care and treatment.

(a) Every owner or keeper of an animal kept in the consolidated city and county shall see that such

(b)

(c)

(d)

animal:

(1) Is kept in a clean, sanitary and healthy manner and is not confined so as to be forced to stand,
sit or lie in its own excrement; the person(s) responsible for animal(s) shall regularly and as
often as necessary to prevent odor or health and sanitation problems, maintain all animal areas
or areas of animal contact;

(2) Has food that is appropriate for the species in adequate amounts to maintain good health, fresh
potable drinking water where appropriate, shelter and ventilation, including quarters that are
protected from excessive heat and cold and are of sufficient size to permit the animal to
exercise and move about freely;

(3) Is protected against abuse, cruelty, neglect, torment, overload, overwork, or any other
mistreatment;

(4) Shall provide the reasonably necessary medical care according to commonly accepted
veterinary standards, in addition to the required rabies vaccination which shall include
recommended vaccinations as required by accepted veterinary standards, and if diseased or
injured, or exhibiting symptoms of disease, receives proper care and is segregated from other
animals so as to prevent transmittal of the disease; and

(5) Is maintained in compliance with all applicable federal, state and local laws and all regulations
respecting animal care and control as are adopted by the
and in effect from time to time.

It shall be unlawful for a person to beat, starve or otherwise mistreat any animal in the city, or to
fail to comply with any requirement of subsection (a) of this section.

It shall be unlawful to tether any animal by use of a choke collar, or on any collar too small for the
size and age of the animal, or by any rope, chain, or cord directly attached to the animal's neck, or
by a leash less than twelve (12) feet in length, or by any tether or leash without swivels on both
ends, or of such unreasonable weight as to prevent the animal from moving about freely;

It shall be unlawful for any animal to be tethered between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.;
or to tether any un-sterilized dog for any period of time unless the dog is in visual range of a
competent adult who is outside with the dog; or to tether or confine an animal at a vacant structure
or premises for any purpose or time when it is not monitored by a competent adult who is present
at the property for the duration of such tethering or confinement.

In addition to the general requirements for animal care and treatment in this article, every owner or
keeper of a dog kept in the consolidated city and county shall see that such dog when confined
outside:

(1) Has access to a shelter constructed of solid wood or other weather resistant material,
consisting of a structure with solid walls on all sides, a dry floor raised above the ground, and
a solid roof sloped away from the entrance to protect the dog from weather and extreme cold.
During winter and any day when the temperature is at or below 40°F, the shelter must be just
large enough for the dog to stand up and turn around, the entrance covered by a flexible wind-
proofing material or self-closing door, and must contain clean, dry bedding, which must consist
of an insulating material that does not retain moisture, such as straw, of sufficient depth for the

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2024

=== 334-2024 proposal document, page 11 of 24 (OCR) ===
G.O. No. 37, 2024
Page 11

dog to burrow. On any day when the temperature is at or above 80°F, the shelter must be
shaded by trees, a tarp, or a tarp-like device.

(2) Must be brought into a temperature-controlled facility when the temperature is at or below 20°F
or at or above 90°F, or when a heat advisory, wind chill warning, or tornado warning has been
issued by local, state, or national authority, except when the dog in visual range of a competent
adult who is outside with the dog.

(3) as adequate space for exercise when confined in an enclosure or pen, which shall consist of
no less than one hundred (100) square feet. A dog over eighty (80) pounds must be provided
with an additional fifty (50) square feet. For each additional dog inside the enclosure, fifty
square feet of space for exercise must be added per dog.

(4) Is treated so that there are no open lesions on the dog's skin due to insect bites or other
parasitic infections.

(5) Shall not be tethered except when all of the following conditions are met:
(i) The tether is not attached to a motorized vehicle, such as an automobile, truck, or
motorcycle;

(ii) The dog is at least six (6) months of age and is not sick or injured;

The tethered dog has access to water, shelter, and dry ground. If there are multiple tethered
dogs, each dog must be tethered separately in a manner that prevents the tethers from
becoming entangled with each other or any other object, and each dog must have separate
water and shelter;

(iv) The tether is attached to the dog by a properly fitting buckle-type collar, or a collar that will
not break under pressure, with a rotating toggle or attachment. ch, prong, or choke
collars shall not be used. The tether shall not wrap directly around the dog's neck,

(v) _ The tether is not of such unreasonable weight as to prevent the dog from moving about
freely, is free of tangles, cannot be entangled with another animal or object, and is at least
twelve (12) feet in length.

(vi) If the dog is attached to a trolley system, the running line must be at least twelve (12) feet
in length and the tether fength must be greater than the height of the running line.

(vil) The tether is located so as not to allow the dog to trespass on public or private property
nor in such a manner as to cause harm or danger to persons or other animals.

(f)_ In the discretion of the enforcement authority, as that term is defined in section 531-711 of this
Code, a person who violates any provision of this section for the first time may be given written
notice of the practices or conditions which constitute the violation, and the enforcement authority
shall in such instance direct remedies to such person where appropriate and provide a time period
of no fonger than thirty (30) days within which to correct the violation(s). Failure of the person to
correct the violations within the specified time period shal! constitute prima facie evidence of this
section.

(g) Aperson who violates any provision of this section shall be punishable as provided in section 103-
3 of this Code; provided, however, the fines imposed for any such violation shail be as follows:

(1) For the first violation, not less than twenty-five dollars ($25.00); and

(2) For the second or subsequent violations, not less than two hundred dollars ($200.00), and the
court upon request shall order forfeiture or other disposition of the animal involved. A judgment
by the court which orders forfeiture or other disposition of the animal by the city or any third
party shall include as a part of such judgment adequate provisions for the collection of costs of
forfeiture or impoundment from the person found in violation.

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2024

=== 334-2024 proposal document, page 12 of 24 (OCR) ===
G.O. No. 37, 2024
Page 12

(h) For purposes of this section, the following terms have the following meanings:

(1) "Confined outside" means confined outside the house, mobile home, or apartment where the
owner is living. Confined outside would include in the yard, or in a garage, shed, or barn without
heating or air-conditioning. Access to a garage, shed, or barn maintained between 40°F and
80°F would not be considered confined outside.

(2) "Temperature controlled facility" means a building maintained between 40°F and 80°F.

ARTICLE V. - WILD OR DANGEROUS ANIMALS, REGISTRATION, CONFINEMENT AND APPEAL
RIGHTS

Sec. 531-501. - Wild animal and dangerous animal determination, appeal rights and confinement
requirements.

(a) For purposes of this article, the procedure, terms, and penalties provided in this section shall apply
to wild animal and dangerous animal determinations, care requirements to be imposed, and actions

by the animal care services agency division.
(b) After an investigation, the director or his or her designee

of the animal care services division is authorized to make a determination whether an
animal is, based upon the factors listed in section 531-101, dangerous or potentially dangerous

ify the owner of the animal in writing of that status. If the sasiniences anboterorihis
robable cause to believe that an animal is dangerous or potentially
dangerous, the director or his or her designee may convene a hearing for the purpose
of determining whether the animal in question shall be declared dangerous or potentially dangerous
and to determine if the animal would pose a threat to public safety if returned to its owner or if
specific conditions of care and treatment were not imposed on the return of the animal to its owner.

Prior to the hearing, the administrator shall conduct or cause to be
conducted an investigation and shall provide reasonable notice of the hearing to the owner.

(c) peal notice to the owner and prior to the hearing, if the admainistrater director or his or her

has probable cause to believe that an animal is dangerous and may pose a threat to

public safety, the administrator director or his or her designee may obtain a search warrant pursuant

to the laws of this jurisdiction and impound the animal pending disposition of the case. The owner
of the animal shall be liable for the cost and expenses of keeping the animal.

(d) The hearing shall be held no less than five (5), and not more than ten (10) days, excluding holidays,
Saturdays and Sundays, after service of notice upon the animal's owner. The hearing shall be
informal and open to the public. The owner shall have the opportunity to present evidence as to
why the animal should not be declared dangerous or not pose a threat to public safety if returned
to its owner. The administrator may present all issues for or against
the owner of the animal regardless of whether the owner appears at the hearing.

(e) Within five (5) days after the hearing, the administrater ¢
the owner in writing of the determination.

e shall notify

(f) The owner may, within five (5) days after a determination that an animal is dangerous, bring a petition
in this county seeking review of the determination. A decision by a court overturning the
administrator shall result in the return of the animal to the owner
subject to the provisions of section 531-733.

(g) Confinement of a dangerous animal means confinement to a fenced yard from which the animal
may not escape by slipping under or over the fence or through an open gate or which would allow
the animal to bite or to otherwise wound a person who may brush against or stick a hand or finger
in, over or through the fence. Such an animal may be confined in an owner's home. The animal's
confinement must be such as will prevent the animal from harassing neighbors or passersby and
may not constitute either a sight, smell or noise nuisance.

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2024

=== 334-2024 proposal document, page 13 of 24 (OCR) ===
G.O. No. 37, 2024
Page 13

(h) Any violation of this section shall subject the owner or person in possession of the animal to the

enforcement provisions of section 103-3 of the Code, and the fine imposed shall not be less than
five hundred dollars ($500.00) for the first violation; not less than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00)
for a second violation; and upon a third violation, the animal shall be seized in accordance
with section 531-721, et seq. If such violation results in the animal causing serious injury to any
person, the court shall, upon request, order the animal forfeited and/or destroyed.

Sec. 531-502. - Wild animal and dangerous animal; registration required; limitation on ownership.

(a)

(b)

(c)

It shall be unlawful for a person to own a wild animal or dangerous animal in the city without first
having registered the animal with the animal care services agency division under this article;
however, this section shall not apply to zoological parks or bona fide circuses or carnivals.

It shall be unlawful for any person to own more than two (2) dangerous animals at any time in the
city. This subsection shall not apply to veterinarians and operators of kennels that are registered
under Chapter 836 of this Code.

It shall be unlawful for any person to own any dangerous animal that is a dog in the city unless the
dog has been spayed or neutered by a veterinarian and has been implanted with a microchip with
a registered identification number.

Sec. 531-503. - Crime prevention dog; registration required.

(a)

(b)

It shall be unlawful for a person to own a crime prevention dog in the city without first having
registered the animal with the animal care services agency division under this article.

Notwithstanding the provisions of section 531-202 of the Code, each crime prevention dog shall be
implanted with a microchip which bears a registered identification number.

Sec. 531-504. - Registration information required; notification of change.

(a)

(b)

aS) Se, and shall include the following:

(1) The owner's name, address, and telephone number where the owner can be reached in the
event of an emergency;

(2) The address and type of premises where the animal is kept;

(3) A detailed description of each animal registered; and

(4) = other information deemed necessary and appropriate by the animal care services agency
During the term of the registration, the owner of an animal registered under this article shall notify

the animal care services agency division in writing of any change in circumstances which would
render the information contained in the registration incomplete or inaccurate.

Sec. 531-505. - Registration fee, term and revocation.

(a)
(b)

(c)

There is no fee for the registration of an animal under this article.

The term of the registration shall expire on the last day of December of the year in which the
registration is made, and shall be renewable upon application therefor.

The animal care services agency division may revoke a registration issued under this article for any
violation of this article committed by the owner of the animal.

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2024

=== 334-2024 proposal document, page 14 of 24 (OCR) ===
G.O. No. 37, 2024
Page 14

ARTICLE VI. - EUTHANASIA OF ANIMALS

Sec. 531-601. - Humane euthanasia of animals.

(a) The animal care services agency division, other animal shelters, and/or public animal facilities
which destroy animals in the city, shall use only such methods, materials and standards as
approved by the American Veterinary Medical Association for said purpose. In no event shall an
animal be euthanized inhumanely.

(b) The shelter shall provide sedatives for struggling or vicious animals when necessary for use during
the euthanasia process and train its personnel in their proper and humane use and administration.

ARTICLE VII. - ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY
DIVISION 1. - INGENERAL

Sec. 531-711. - Enforcement authority defined.

For the purposes of this article, the enforcement authority shall consist of the department of business-and

division, its designees, and the Indianapolis

metropolitan police department.

Sec. 531-712. - Enforcement authority's rights and responsibilities.

(a) Persons who are individually charged with the enforcement of this chapter, within the division-of
animal care services , shall be designated animal eare-and control officers, and prior to the
performance of any act in connection therewith, shall be appointed and sworn as special police
officers pursuant to chapter 279, of the Code. Such animal eare-and control officers shall also
receive appropriate and relevant training and be certified by the National Animal Control
Association or other appropriate agency.

(b) It shall be the duty of the Indianapolis metropolitan police department to assist in the enforcement
of all provisions of this chapter and other ordinances in relation to animals, and it shall be the duty
of all officers of such agency to report at once all violations thereof to police or sheriffs
headquarters.

(c) Such officers are authorized to enforce all provisions of this chapter and section 836-5 of this Code,
including the right to proceed upon public and private property in the city in pursuit of animals in
violation of this chapter.

(d) Such officers are not authorized to enter a privately owned enclosure in pursuit of an animal without
the consent of the owner, lessee or other occupant of the enclosure, or other legal process;
provided, however, if any animal is believed to be enclosed without adequate food, shelter and
water, or dead animals are believed to be enclosed, and such owner or occupant is not present
and cannot readily be located, an animal care-and control officer may affix a notice to the premises
in an obvious location, directing the occupant to contact the officer at a given location and phone
number. If neither the occupant nor anyone on the occupant's behalf responds to such notice within
twenty-four (24) hours after the notice is affixed, an animal care-and control officer may enter the
premises to determine if the provisions of this chapter or section 836-5 of this Code have been
violated.

Sec. 531-713. - Interference with enforcement authority.

It shall be unlawful for a person to interfere with an animal eare-and control officer or other enforcement
authority officer in the performance of the officer's duties. A person who violates this section shall be
punishable as provided in section 103-3 of this Code; provided, however, a fine imposed for any such
violation shall not be less than fifty dollars ($50.00).

DIVISION 2. - IMPOUNDMENT AND DISPOSITION OF ANIMALS
GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2024

=== 334-2024 proposal document, page 15 of 24 (OCR) ===
G.O. No. 37, 2024
Page 15

Sec. 531-722. - Notice to owner.

(a) Upon the impoundment of an animal, a reasonable attempt shall be made to notify and inform the
owner of the animal of the requirements of this article for regaining the custody of the animal.

(b) Such attempt shall include, but not necessarily be limited to, the following:

(1) In the instance of an impounded dog or cat, contact with the owner identified by the microchip
or other permanent means of identification, if any, borne by the dog or cat;

(2) In the instance of an impounded dog or cat not bearing a permanent means of identification,
contact with the veterinarian facility listed on the animal's vaccination tag; and

(3) Cooperation of effort with other governmental and private agencies, such as the Humane
Society of Indianapolis or other humane and/or breed rescue organizations recognized by the

animal care services agency division.

Sec. 531-723. - Report of impoundment.

A person who confines an animal found by that person to be at large in the city shall notify the animal care
services agency division or one of its agents within forty-eight (48) hours thereafter.

Sec. 531-724. - Return of captured animal without impoundment.

When the owner of a captured animal is known, such animal need not be impounded but may be returned

to its owner if, in the opinion of the animal control eare-services-officer

services agency, the return would not present a detriment to the public health or welfare or otherwise result
in a violation of this chapter. A community cat shall be released where captured, unless reasonable options
of return have been exhausted.

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2024

=== 334-2024 proposal document, page 16 of 24 (OCR) ===
G.O. No. 37, 2024
Page 16

Sec. 531-725. - Return of impounded animal to its owner.

(a)

(b)

(c)

An animal impounded-under-this-division, if claimed by its owner, shall be returned to its owner
subject to, and upon compliance with, the provisions of division 2 and division 3 of this article.

The owner of an impounded animal may obtain the return of such animal upon compliance with
any applicable provisions the board arenes may impose, and the payment of the appropriate
impoundment and kennel fees, and any other applicable fees and fines.

Prior to the return to its owner of an impounded dog or cat which at the time of impoundment did
not bear a permanent means of identification as required by section 531-202 of this Code, the
enforcement authority shall cause a microchip with a registered identification number to be
implanted in the animal. The fee for such service shall be ten dollars ($10.00).

Sec. 531-727. - Petition for bond to cover costs of impoundment and care; forfeiture of animal.

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

(e)

Petition. Whenever an animal is impounded under this article for a violation of section 531-
109, 531-204, or 531-305, or a violation of article IV of this chapter, or a violation of [article] V of
this chapter, or a violation of 531-728, or has been impounded on a prior occasion, or the city
prosecutor has applied for an order under section 531-733, the city prosecutor may file a petition
with the court having jurisdiction over the ordinance enforcement action requesting an order to
require the owner to post a cash bond to cover the fees and costs of the animal's care. The petition
shall include an itemized estimate of the reasonable expenses the animal care services rae
division expects to incur for the care of the animal from the time of impoundment to a minimum of
thirty (30) days thereafter. Such expenses shall include but are not limited to the impoundment fee
and kennel fees provided in section 531-726 of the Code, and the estimated cost of emergency
and routine veterinary care.

Hearing and order. The court, pursuant to its rules of procedure, shall provide the opportunity for a
prompt hearing and prompt decision on the city prosecutor's petition. If the court finds there is a
reasonable likelihood that the city will prevail on the merits of the ordinance enforcement action,
then the court shall order the owner to post a cash bond as provided in this section to cover the
fees and other costs of care of the animal for a specific period of time of not less than thirty (30)
days beginning on the date of impoundment.

Posting of bond; time requirements. The owner shall post the bond by delivering cash or a certified
or cashier's check payable to "City of Indianapolis" to the animal care services aera GHISTR. The
cash or check must be received by the animal care services agency division within three (3) days
after the date of the court's order, excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and city holidays established
in section 291-206 of the Code. The animal care services agora iecien shall hold such check or
cash in trust until forfeiture of the animal, return of the animal to its owner, or final adjudication of
the ordinance enforcement action, whichever first occurs.

Renewal bonds. The animal's owner shall renew the bond at the end of the period of time ordered
by the court, and every thirty (30) days thereafter, in the same manner as posting the bond provided
in subsection (c) of this section. The owner's duty to renew the bond shall continue until forfeiture
of the animal, return of the animal to its owner, or final adjudication of the ordinance enforcement
action, whichever first occurs. The owner shall pay the renewal bond before the close of business
on the last day of each bond period; however, if such last day is a Saturday, Sunday, or city holiday
established in section 291-206 of the Code, then the renewal bond shall be paid on the last
business day prior to such Saturday, Sunday, or holiday.

Forfeiture. lf an owner fails to post a bond within three (3) days as provided by subsection (c) of
this section, or fails to pay a renewal bond before the close of business on the last day of each
bond period as provided by subsection (d) of this section, then the owner shall be presumed to
have surrendered all rights and claim of ownership and control of the animal and the city prosecutor
may petition the court for an order to dispose of the animal under the provisions of section 531-
731 of the Code.

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2024

=== 334-2024 proposal document, page 17 of 24 (OCR) ===
(f)

G.O. No. 37, 2024
Page 17

Expiration of bond. Upon forfeiture of the animal, return of the animal to its owner, or final
adjudication of the ordinance enforcement action, whichever first occurs, the animal care services

division shall be entitled to draw upon the cash or certified or cashier's check to cover the
animal's impoundment fee, kennel fees and the cost of any actual veterinary care. After the fees
and costs are paid, the city shall promptly remit any remaining bond money to the owner; however,
if the bond money is not sufficient to cover such fees and costs, the owner shall be liable to the city
for the difference.

Sec. 531-728. - Additional restrictions on dangerous or nuisance owners or keepers of animals.

(a)

It shall be unlawful for any person who has been found in violation of sections 531-102 (at
large), 531-103 (animals in heat), 531-109 (animal attacks), 531-204 (nuisance), 531-
206 (unlawful use), 531-401 (care and _ treatment), 531-402 (abandonment), 531-404 (animal
fights) or article V of this chapter, to own or keep more than two (2) dogs in the city or to own or
keep any dog:

(1) That has not been spayed or neutered by a veterinarian; or and
(2) That has not been implanted with a microchip with a registered identification number.

A person who has been found in violation of sections 531-102(c) (at large), 531-109 (animal
attacks), 531-206 (unlawful use), 531-404 (animal fights) or article V of this chapter commits a
violation of the code if any dog owned or kept by that person is outside a structural enclosure
sufficient to confine the dog without means of escape, unless the dog is on a leash and under the
control of a competent adult.

DIVISION 3. - OTHER DISPOSITION OF ANIMALS

Sec. 531-731. - Disposition of owner-surrendered animals and impounded animals not claimed by owner;
adoption.

(a)

An animal surrendered by its owner to the animal care services agency division and not adopted,
or rescued by a humane or breed rescue organization, may be kept or otherwise humanely
disposed of, in the reasonable exercise of discretion of the enforcement authority, but consistent
with such provisions as the animal care services board shall make
regarding the capture, surrender, impoundment, adoption, sale and destruction of animals. No
healthy, behaviorally sound, adoptable owner-surrendered animal shall be humanely disposed of,
while there is sufficient room in the kennel to reasonably house such animal at the animal care
services shelter.

An animal impounded under this article and that is not claimed by its owner shall be confined b

\ot and—des A animal: 4 “Even after. ‘the STM of the
mpoundnaent| per od, no an mal sha be humanely disposed of, while there is sufficient room in the
kennel to reasonably house such animal at the animal care services shelter.

A free-roaming cat that is not spayed or neutered and is eligible for the community cat program is
exempt from the mandatory impoundment period and may
be immediately processed through the community cat program.

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2024

=== 334-2024 proposal document, page 18 of 24 (OCR) ===
G.O. No. 37, 2024
Page 18

be spayed or neutered, r prior to being released to any person who wishes to
adopt the animal.

Sec. 531-733. - Restrictions on return of certain animals.

{a} Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, an animal which has been impounded under

this article for a violation of sections 531-102 (at large), 531-103 (animals in heat), 531-109 (animal
attacks), 531-204 (nuisance), or 531-305 (rabies quarantine), or a violation of either article IV or V,
of this chapter, or a violation of 531-728 (additional restrictions), or which has been impounded on
a prior occasion, or which has bitten or otherwise caused injury to person or property shall be
returned to its owner only if the enforcement authority in its discretion determines that such return
will not result in further or ongoing violations of these sections.

Sec. 531-736. - Capture, holding and maintenance, and disposition of animals by the humane society.

(a)

The Humane Society of Indianapolis, Inc., by its duly authorized agents, employees or other
personnel, shall have the authority to proceed to the scene or location of a diseased, sick or injured
animal which is at large in the county after being requested to do so by any member of the general
public for the purposes of capturing and transporting such animal to its duly established humane
shelter, and to hold and properly maintain the animal until it is either claimed by its owner, or in the
discretion of the humane society, otherwise properly disposed of. The humane society may also
receive an animal brought to its shelter by members of the general public or proper governmental
personnel and either keep, or in the discretion of the humane society, otherwise humanely dispose
of such animal.

Upon the capture of any diseased, sick or injured animal or taking of an animal brought to its shelter
by a person or any local governmental personnel, the humane society personnel shall make a
reasonable attempt to notify and inform the owner of the animal of the requirements and procedures
for claiming ownership and regaining custody thereof.

When the owner of a captured or held animal is discovered or known, the animal shall be returned
to the owner upon the payment of any applicable fees or upon the compliance with all other
applicable procedures of the humane society. If the owner does not claim an animal or desires not
to claim it, the humane society, within its discretion, may return the animal to any person desiring
to assume ownership, custody and care thereof in conformance with the established requirements
of the humane society after a four (4)-day holding period, as long as the animal has or will receive
a current antirabies vaccination under the provisions of Article Ill of this chapter.

Upon the capture of any diseased, sick or injured animal or the taking of an animal brought to its
shelter by any person or any local governmental personnel, the humane society shall, subject to

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2024

=== 334-2024 proposal document, page 19 of 24 (OCR) ===
G.O. No. 37, 2024
Page 19

the provisions of subsection (e) of this section, confine the animal in a humane manner for a period
of not less than four (4) days. Thereafter, the humane society in its discretion may keep, release or
otherwise humanely dispose of the animal consistent with the established procedures of the
humane society as they may be amended from time to time.

Notwithstanding any provision of this section to the contrary, diseased or injured animals need not
be retained four (4) days but may be humanely disposed of at any time if in the discretion of the
proper humane society personnel or authorized veterinarian such disposition is necessary and
proper for such animals.

This section does not authorize the humane society to assume any of the impoundment and
disposition functions of the animal care services agency-division-as elsewhere specified in this
chapter or state law.

Nothing in this section shall inhibit the animal care services agency-divisien in any way from carrying
out its functions in accordance with applicable law and whatever provisions or regulations the

animal care services board city-board safety. shall make in carrying out its mandate to

make provisions to maintain an animal care services agency-division, to regulate the capture,
impoundment, sale and destruction of animals in accordance with applicable law, and for the

operation of the animal care services agency-division.

ARTICLE VIII. - GIFTS AND FINANCING

Sec. 531-811. - Gifts to animal care services division; disposition.

(a)

(b)

All money generated, received or collected by virtue of the provisions of this chapter are to be set
aside and placed in the general fund, except as hereinafter provided.

Gifts or donations to the animal care services agency-division may be accepted by the city controller
or the mayor, for and on behalf of the animal care services . All moneys received
by donations, gifts, bequests or devises or otherwise (except as provided in section 531-811(c))
shall be paid to the city controller on the first day of the week succeeding the week during which
such moneys were received, and deposited into a dedicated animal care fund to be used to promote
the safe and humane treatment of animals in the city and to promote responsible pet ownership, to
pay for any reasonable expenses incurred promoting the proper care, treatment and sterilization of
animals and education of the public regarding the same. No expenditure may be made from the
dedicated animal care fund unless first approved by a majority of th

All money generated, received or collected in response to the agency's division's special fund-
raising projects shall be payable to the city controller and deposited in a dedicated animal control
special projects funds to be used in a manner consistent with the announced purpose of any special
fund-raising event or project. No expenditure may be made from the dedicated animal care special

rojects fund unless first approved by the
The expenditure of funds from the dedicated animal care special projects
fund shall be subject to all state and local appropriation and purchasing requirements and
appropriated by the city-county council.

shall provide the animal care services board

ices-advis at-each ting, and to the council every six (6) months a report
relating to the revenue and expenditures from the dedicated animal care fund and the dedicated
animal care special projects fund.

Chapter 836 - KENNEL, PET SHOP AND STABLE REGISTRATIONS

Sec. 836-1. - Definitions.

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2024

=== 334-2024 proposal document, page 20 of 24 (OCR) ===
G.O. No. 37, 2024
Page 20

As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section:

Animal rescue organization means a not-for-profit organization having tax-exempt status under 501(c)(3)
of the United States Internal Revenue Code, whose mission and practice is, in whole or in significant part,
the rescue and placement of animals into permanent homes. The term animal rescue organization does
not include any person that: (1) breeds animals for profit; (2) is located on the same premises as a person
that breeds animals for profit; (3) has any personnel in common with a person that breeds animals for profit,
(4) obtains, in exchange for payment or compensation, dogs or cats from a person that breeds animals for
profit, or (5) facilitates the sale of dogs or cats that were obtained, in exchange for payment or
compensation, from a person that breeds animals for profit.

Cat means any member of the species Felis catus.

Dog means any member of the species Canis familiaris.

Kennel means a facility operated commercially and principally for the purpose of boarding, housing,
breeding or training dogs or cats, or both; a kennel, for purposes of this chapter, shall not include a facility
in or adjoining a private residence where dogs are kept for the hobby of the householder using them for
hunting, practice tracking, exhibiting in shows or field or obedience trials or for the guarding or protecting
of the householder's property, and an occasional sale of puppies or kittens by the owner, lessee or other
occupant of such property shall not make that property a kennel for the purposes of this chapter.

Offer for sale means to proffer for acceptance by another person.

Person shall mean an individual, corporation, partnership, association, or any other entity.

Pet shop means: (1) a facility operated commercially and principally for the purpose of sel
which, in the hands of their immediate purchasers, will be pets; or (2) any retail store where ai
kept, sold, or offered for sale on the premises. An animal care services shelter, as described in section 288-
403 296-542 of this Code, or an animal rescue organization, as defined in this section, shall not be
considered a pet shop.

Rabbit means any member of the species Oryctolagus cuniculus domesticus.

Sell means to exchange for consideration, adopt out, barter, auction, trade, lease, or otherwise transfer an
animal.

Stable means a fai
domestic animals.

ity operated commercially and principally for the purpose of lodging and feeding

Sec. 836-3. - Annual inspection; registration term; renewal.

(a) Prior to the issuance of a certificate of registration or renewal of registration, the license
administrator may cause an inspection of the kennel, pet shop or stable to be made by the animal

care services division to determine whether the applicant or registrant is qual i
chapter. The animal care services rene AGIA shall report its findings to the license

administrator.

(b) The registration term shall be in accordance with section 801-209 of the Code.
Sec. 836-5. - Requirements for kennels, pet shops and stables; enforcement.

(a) In addition to the registration required by this chapter, all kennels, pet shops and stables in the city
shall:

(1) Be operated in such a manner as not to constitute a nuisance;

(2) Provide an isolation ward for boarded animals that are sick or diseased, sufficiently removed
so as not to endanger the health of other animals;

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2024

=== 334-2024 proposal document, page 21 of 24 (OCR) ===
G.O. No. 37, 2024
Page 21

(3) Keep all boarded animals caged or under the control of the owner or operator of the kennel,
pet shop or stable;

(4) With respect to all animals in the kennel, pet shop or stable, comply with all the requirements
of the Code for the general care of animals; and

(5) Comply with all applicable federal, state and local laws, and all applicable regulations adopted
by the

(b) The owner or operator of all kennels and pet shops in the city shall:

(1) At the time of purchase, notify the purchaser of all state and local laws that require an animal
kept in the city to be vaccinated;

(2) Retain the name, address and telephone number of the owner of each dog or cat boarded, and
retain the name and address of each person selling, trading or giving any animal to the kennel
or pet shop; and

(3) Not sell animals that are unweaned or so young or weak that their sale would be injurious to
the animals.

(c) The provisions of this section shall be enforced by the license administrator, and by the animal care
services agency division as provided in Article VI of Chapter 531 of the Code.

Sec. 836-6. - Prohibition on the retail sale of dogs, cats, or rabbits by pet shops.

(a) It shall be unlawful for a pet shop to sell or offer for sale a dog, cat, or rabbit unless the animal was
obtained by the pet shop from either an animal services shelter described in section 288-103 226-
542 of this Code or an animal rescue organization, as defined in section 836-1 and all of the
following conditions are met:

(1) Allfees or other charges for the sale of a dog, cat or rabbit shall not exceed five hundred dollars
($500.00) per animal; and

(2) The pet shop posts in a conspicuous location affixed to the enclosure of each dog, cat or rabbit
available for sale: the name of and city and state for the animal services shelter or animal
rescue organization from which the pet store obtained the dog, cat or rabbit.

(b) Maintenance of records.

(1) A pet shop shall maintain records documenting from which animal services shelter or animal
rescue organization the pet shop obtained each dog, cat or rabbit in the possession of the pet
store for not less than one year following the date the pet store takes possession of the dog,
cat or rabbit.

section available for ins

pection upon

or its designee.

(c) Enforcement and penalties.

or its designee.

(2) A pet shop that sells or offers for sale a dog, cat, or rabbit in violation of subsection 836-6(a) is
subject to admission of violation and payment of a civil penalty in an amount provided in section
103-52 of the Code for the pet shop's first violation in a twelve-month period. All second and
subsequent violations in any twelve-month period are subject to the enforcement procedures

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2024

=== 334-2024 proposal document, page 22 of 24 (OCR) ===
G.O. No. 37, 2024
Page 22

and penalties provided in section 103-3 of this Code, and the fine imposed for any subsequent
violation in any twelve-month period shall not be less than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00).

(3) A pet shop that fails to maintain and provide records in violation of subsection 836-6(b) is
subject to admission of violation and payment of a civil penalty in an amount provided in section
103-52 of the Code for the pet shop's first violation in a twelve-month period. All second and
subsequent violations in any twelve-month period are subject to the enforcement procedures
and penalties provided in section 103-3 of this Code, and the fine imposed for any subsequent
violation in any twelve-month period shall not be less than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00).

(4) Any violation under this chapter shall be reported to the license administrator and subject to
action under chapter 801 of this Code.

(d) Section 836-6 shall take effect on May 1, 2025 for any pet shop registered with the_license
administrator prior to April 1, 2023

SECTION 2. The expressed or implied repeal or amendment by this ordinance of any other ordinance or
part of any other ordinance does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred, or
proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this ordinance. Those rights, liabilities, and proceedings
are continued, and penalties shall be imposed and enforced under the repealed or amended ordinance as
if this ordinance had not been adopted.

SECTION 3. Should any provision (section, paragraph, sentence, clause, or any other portion) of this
ordinance be declared by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, the remaining
provision or provisions shall not be affected, if and only if such remaining provisions can, without the invalid
provision or provisions, be given the effect intended by the Council in adopting this ordinance. To this end
the provisions of this ordinance are severable.

SECTION 4. This ordinance shall be in effect from and after its passage by the Council and compliance
with Ind. Code § 36-3-4-14.

The foregoing was passed by the City-County Council this 4" day of November, 2024, at 7:48 p.m.

ATTEST:

President, City-County Council

HN udora_ Atufaslol.
Yulonda Winfield

Clerk, City-County Council

Presented by me to the Mayor this 7 day of November, 2024.

Clerk, City-County Council

Approved and signed by me this Ba day of November, 2024. xh
f sph i A

Joséph H. Hogsett, Mayor

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2024

=== 334-2024 proposal document, page 23 of 24 (OCR) ===
G.O. No. 37, 2024
Page 23

STATE OF INDIANA, MARION COUNTY)
) ss:
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS )

|, Yulonda Winfield, Clerk of the City-County Council, Indianapolis, Marion County, Indiana, do hereby certify
the above and foregoing is a full, true, and complete copy of Proposal No. 334, 2024, a Proposal for a
GENERAL ORDINANCE passed by the City-County Council on the 4" day of November, 2024, by a vote of
25 YEAS ang 0 NAYS, and was retitled General Ordinance No. 37, 2024, which was signed by the Mayor
on the wt day of November, 2024, and now remains on file and on record in my office.

WITNESS my hand and the official seal of the City of Indianapolis, Indiana, this eA day of November,

2024.
Yulonda Winfield o
Clerk, City-County Council

(SEAL)

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2024

=== 334-2024 proposal document, page 24 of 24 (OCR) ===
Indianapolis City - County Council RCS# 413

2020-2023
2024-2027
11/4/2024 7:48 PM
Proposal: PROP-24 334 Ordinance: G.O. 37 (PASSED)
Sponsor: ROBERTS, BARTH
Action: Adopt
Committee: Metro. and Econ. Dev.
Yea: 25 Nay: 0 Abstain: 0 Not Voting: 0 Excused: 0
Yea - 25
Allen Cahill Graves Mowery
Annee Carlino Hart Nielsen
Bain Delaney Jones Osili
Barth Dilk Lewis Perkins
Boots Evans Mascari Roberts
Brown-A Gibson McCormick Robinson
Brown-J
Nay -0
Abstain - 0
Not Voting - 0

Excused - 0
