=== 54-2023 proposal document, page 1 of 3 (OCR) ===
CITY-COUNTY SPECIAL RESOLUTION NO. 9, 2023
Proposal No. 54, 2023

A SPECIAL RESOLUTION recognizing Dr. Wallace McLaughlin for 29 years of service at Fathers and
Families Center.

WHEREAS, in 1991, a study was conducted resulting in the consensus that a resource program for
fathers was needed. A team, which included Wallace McLaughlin, developed a program that would help
address the high single-parent birth rate and the absence of young fathers in the lives of their children; and

WHEREAS, Wallace became the program director and its founding president/CEO. The first class
started in April of 1994, and the program’s mission was “to build a noble legacy of fatherhood.” It’s a
statement that reflected the program’s determination to reconnect a generation of young men with the
tradition of responsibie fatherhood—and it still serves as their mission today; and

WHEREAS, in 1999, Fathers and Families Resource/Research Center, Inc., was established as a
501(c)(3) nonprofit organization, after six years of operating as Wishard Health Services’ Father Resource
Program. Since opening, the Center has delivered services to nearly 20,000 fathers residing in Indianapolis’
inner city and other community neighborhoods. Except for a few cases, program participants come to the
Center voluntarily. Many of these fathers learn about the program’s services by word-of-mouth from past
participants; and

WHEREAS, Fathers and Families Center became a United Way of Central Indiana member agency in
2003, a few months after relocating from Wishard Hospital to a more visible, accessible location on North
nois Street. The Center has secured federal, state, and local funding to support initiatives promoting
responsible fatherhood, and has increased support for families, healthy marriages, non-custodial father
involvement, successful reintegration for ex-offenders, and crime prevention throughout Indianapolis; and

WHEREAS, Fathers and Families Center has received numerous awards at the national, state, and
local levels, including the 2008 Champion of Compassion Award from the U.S. Department of Labor's
Center for Faith-Based and Community Initiatives. In the past two Indianapolis Mayor's Task Force reports
on crime prevention, Fathers and Families Center has been recognized as a model program for working
with at-risk African American men in the community; and

WHEREAS, Dr. Wallace McLaughlin has served as the President and CEO of Fathers & Families
Center for 28 years. He says a study conducted back in the early 1990s found that the negative stereotype
of Black fathers isn’t as simple as some believe it to be. "There was a notion at that time that a lot of fathers
were deadbeat, but we discovered they were not deadbeat but dead broken. We also realized that the best
parents are both parents; and so we wanted to involve fathers not only in establishing child support, but
giving them resources they needed: the support, the education, and job opportunities so that they could
actually be involved in the lives of their children,” and

WHEREAS, Dr. McLaughlin stated that “it does not matter what age you become a father, it’s never too
late to build a noble legacy of fatherhood.” He should know, since he became a proud father at the young
age of 54 years old; now, therefore:

BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA:

SECTION 1. The Indianapolis City-County Council proudly congratulates Dr. Wallace McLaughlin for 29
years of service at Fathers and Families Center.

SECTION 2. The Council heartily recognizes Dr. Wallace McLaughlin for his contributions to our community
and wishes him all the best in future endeavors.

SECTION 3. The Mayor is invited to join in this resolution by affixing his signature hereto.

SECTION 4. This resolution shall be in full force and effect upon adoption and compliance with IC 36-3-4-
14.

SPECIAL RESOLUTION RECORD 2023

=== 54-2023 proposal document, page 2 of 3 (OCR) ===
S.R. No. 9, 2023
Page 2

The foregoing was passed by the City-County Council this 6" day of February, 2023, at 7:32p.m.

ATTEST:

Vop Osili

Presid ity-County Council

Yulonda Winfield
Clerk, City-County Council

Presented by me to the Mayor this 7" day of February, 2023

Yulonda Winfield
Clerk, City-County Council

Approved and signed by me this eth day of February, 2023.

be jogsett, tid

STATE OF INDIANA, MARION COUNTY)
) ss:
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS )

1, Yulonda Winfield, Clerk of the City-County Council, Indianapolis, Marion County, Indiana, do hereby certify
the above and foregoing is a full, true, and complete copy of Proposal No. 54, 2023, a Proposal fora SPECIAL
RESOLUTION passed by the City-County Council on the 6 day of February, 2023, by a unanimous voice
vote, and was retitled Special Resolution No. 9, 2023, which was signed by the Mayor on the os day
of February, 2023, and now remains on file and.on record in my office.

WITNESS my hand and the official seal of the City of Indianapolis, Indiana, this BA aay of February, 2023.

Yulonda Winfield
Clerk, City-County Council

(SEAL)

SPECIAL RESOLUTION RECORD 2023

=== 54-2023 proposal document, page 3 of 3 (OCR) ===
Proposal: PROP23- 54
Sponsor: Graves
Action: Adopt
Commitiee: Whole

Yea: 25

Yea - 25
Adamson
Annee
Bain
Barth
Boots
Brown
Carlino

Nay - 0

Abstain - 0

Not Voting - 0

Excused - 0

Indianapolis City - County Council

2020-2023
2020-2023

2/6/2023 7:32 PM

Ordinance: S.R. 9

- VOTED BY UNANIMOUS CONSENT -

Nay: 0

Dilk
Evans-E
Evans-J
Graves
Gray
Hart

Abstain: 0

Not Voting: 0

Jackson
Jones
Larrison
Lewis
Mascari
McCormick

RCS# 1038

(PASSED)

Excused: 0

Mowery
Oliver
Osili
Potts
Ray
Robinson
