=== 56-2022 proposal document, page 1 of 7 (OCR) ===
CITY-COUNTY SPECIAL ORDINANCE NO. 2, 2022
Proposal No. 56, 2022

A SPECIAL ORDINANCE of the City-County Council of the City of Indianapolis and of Marion
County, Indiana, authorizing the issuance of one or more series of its City of indianapolis, Indiana,
Economic Development Tax Increment Revenue Bonds, Series 2022 (Stutz 1 Project) (with such further or
different series designation as may be necessary, desirable or appropriate, including such series
designation to indicate the year in which the bonds are issued), in a maximum aggregate principal amount
not to exceed Twelve Million Three Hundred Twenty-One Thousand Dollars ($12,321,000), for the purpose
of providing funds to pay the costs of the Project (as defined herein) and approving and authorizing other
actions in respect thereto.

WHEREAS, Indiana Code 36-7-11.9 and 12 (collectively, the “Act”) declares that the financing and
refinancing of economic development facilities constitutes a public purpose; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to the Act, the City of Indianapolis, Indiana (the “City”), is authorized to issue
revenue bonds for the purpose of financing, reimbursing, or refinancing the costs of acquisition,
construction, renovation, installation, and equipping of economic development facilities in order to foster
diversification of economic development and creation or retention of opportunities for gainful employment
in or near the City; and

WHEREAS, MTP — Stutz Propco, LLC, and/or one or more affiliates and/or designees (collectively, the
“Developer”), has informed the City that it will be redeveloping the existing Stutz Factory Building into a
mixed-use development consisting of approximately 12,000 square feet of retail and dining space,
approximately 27,000 square feet of coworking space, approximately 17,000 square feet of event space,
and approximately 15,000 square feet of fitness/lifestyle space, located at 1060 N. Capitol Avenue in the
City, together with all necessary appurtenances, related improvements and equipment, and incidental
expenses in connection therewith (the “Project”); and

WHEREAS, the Project will be located on approximately 3.8 acres of property located at 1060 North
Capitol Avenue, Indianapolis, Indiana 46202, which is in City-County Council District 11, and is, or will be,
located in or physically connected to the Stutz 1 Economic Development Area and the Stutz 1 Allocation
Area, an allocation area (the “Allocation Area”) as established by the Metropolitan Development
Commission of Marion County, Indiana, acting as the Redevelopment Commission of the City; and

WHEREAS, Developer has advised the indianapolis Economic Development Commission (the
“Commission’) and the City concerning the Project and requested that the City issue one or more series of
its Economic Development Tax Increment Revenue Bonds, Series 2022 (Stutz 1 Project) (with such further
or different series designation as may be necessary, desirable or appropriate, including such series
designation to indicate the year in which the bonds are issued), in an aggregate principal amount not to
exceed Twelve Million Three Hundred Twenty-One Thousand Dollars ($12,321,000) (the “Bonds”) under
the Act, and make the proceeds of the Bonds, exclusive of cost of issuance, available to Developer for
construction or reimbursement of the costs of financing a portion of the Project; and

WHEREAS, the Commission has rendered its report regarding the proposed financing of the Project
as an economic development facility for Developer and the Metropolitan Development Commission of
Marion County, indiana, as Plan Commission, and the Superintendent of the Indianapolis Public Schools
have been given an opportunity to comment thereon; and

WHEREAS, the Commission has heretofore conducted a public hearing in accordance with Indiana
Code 36-7-12-24 and adopted its resolution subsequent thereto finding that the financing of the Project
complies with the purposes and provisions of the Act and that such financing will be of benefit to the health
and welfare of the City; and

WHEREAS, the Commission has heretofore approved and recommended the adoption of this form of
ordinance by this City-County Council, has considered the issue of adverse competitive effect, and has
approved the forms of and has transmitted for approval by the City-County Council, the Financing
Documents (as hereinafter defined); and

WHEREAS, pursuant to and in accordance with the Act, the City desires to provide funds necessary to
finance and reimburse a portion of the Project by issuing the Bonds; and

SPECIAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2022

=== 56-2022 proposal document, page 2 of 7 (OCR) ===
$.0. No. 2, 2022
Page 2

WHEREAS, Section 1.150-2 of the Treasury Regulations on Income Tax (collectively, the
“Reimbursement Regulations”) specify conditions under which a reimbursement allocation may be treated
as an expenditure of proceeds of Bonds, and the City intends by this ordinance to qualify amounts advanced
by it to the Project for reimbursement from proceeds of the Bonds in accordance with the requirements of
the Reimbursement Regulations; and

WHEREAS, the Act provides that such Bonds may be secured by a trust indenture between an issuer
and a corporate trustee; and

WHEREAS, the City intends to issue the Bonds consistent with the terms of this Ordinance and
pursuant to a Trust Indenture, to be dated as of the first day of the month in which the Bonds are sold or
delivered (or such other date as the officers of the City may hereafter approve) (the “Bond Indenture”), by
and between the City and a corporate trustee to be selected by the City (the “Bond Trustee”), in order to
obtain funds necessary to provide for the financing of a portion of the Project, in accordance with the terms
of a Financing Agreement, to be dated the first day of the month in which the Bonds are sold or delivered
(or such other date as the officers of the City may hereafter approve) (the “Financing Agreement’), by and
between the City and Developer with respect to the Bonds and the Project; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to the Financing Agreement, Developer will make certain representations,
warranties, and commitments with respect to the Project which will permit the City to derive incremental
real property tax revenues from the Project within the Allocation Area (the “Stutz 1 TIF Revenues”), sufficient
to pay principal of and interest on the Bonds, as the same become due and payable, and to pay
administrative expenses in connection with the Bonds, as further described herein; and

WHEREAS, no member of the City-County Council has any pecuniary interest in any employment,
financing agreement, or other contract made under the provisions of the Act and related to the Bonds
authorized herein, which pecuniary interest has not been fully disclosed to the City-County Council and no
such member has voted on any such matter, all in accordance with the provisions of Indiana Code 36-7-
12-16;

WHEREAS, there has been submitted to the Commission for its approval forms of the Bond Indenture,
the Bonds and the Financing Agreement (collectively, the “Financing Documents”), and a form of this
proposed Ordinance, which were incorporated by reference in the Commission’s Resolution adopted on
February 9, 2022, which Resolution has been transmitted to the City-County Council; and

WHEREAS, prior to the issuance of the Bonds, the Metropolitan Development Commission of Marion
County, Indiana, acting as the Redevelopment Commission of the City, will pledge eighty percent (80%) of
the Stutz 1 TIF Revenues as the sole payment of interest on and principal of the Bonds (the “Pledged TIF
Revenues’); and

WHEREAS, based upon the resolution adopted by the Commission pertaining to the Project, the City-
County Council hereby finds and determines that the financing and reimbursement approved by the
Commission for the Project will be of benefit to the health and general welfare of the citizens of the City,
complies with the provisions of the Act, and the amount necessary to finance and reimburse a portion of
the costs of the Project will require the issuance, sale and delivery of one or more series of economic
development tax increment revenue bonds in an aggregate combined principal amount not to exceed
Twelve Million Three Hundred Twenty-One Thousand Dollars ($12,321,000); now, therefore:

BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA:

SECTION 1. Itis hereby found, determined, ratified, and confirmed that the financing and reimbursement
of the economic development facilities referred to in the Financing Documents consisting of the Project, the
issuance and sale of the Bonds, and the use of the net proceeds thereof to finance and reimburse a portion
of the Project (i) will result in the diversification of industry, the creation or retention of business opportunities
and the creation or retention of opportunities for gainful employment within the jurisdiction of the City; (
will serve a public purpose, and will be of benefit to the health and general welfare of the City; (ili) complies
with the purposes and provisions of the Act and it is in the public interest that the City take such lawful
action as determined to be necessary or desirable to encourage the diversification of industry, the creation
or retention of business opportunities, and the creation or retention of opportunities for gainful employment
SPECIAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2022

=== 56-2022 proposal document, page 3 of 7 (OCR) ===
S.0. No. 2, 2022
Page 3

within the jurisdiction of the City; and (iv) will not have a material adverse competitive effect on any similar
facilities already constructed or operating in or near the City.

SECTION 2. The forms of the Financing Documents presented herewith are hereby approved and all such
documents shall be kept on file by the Clerk of the City-County Council or City Controller. In compliance
with Indiana Code 36-1-5-4, two (2) copies of the Financing Documents are on file in the office of the Clerk
of the City-County Council for public inspection.

SECTION 3. The City shall issue its Bonds in one or more series, any series of which may be taxable or
tax-exempt for federal income tax purposes, in the maximum aggregate principal amount not to exceed
Twelve Million Three Hundred Twenty-One Thousand Dollars ($12,321,000), with a maximum term not to
exceed twenty-five (25) years from the date of issuance and with a maximum interest rate not to exceed
six and one-half percent (6.5%) per annum, for the purpose of procuring funds to finance the Project and
costs of issuance of the Bonds, which Bonds will be payable as to principal and interest solely from the
Pledged TIF Revenues, upon such terms and conditions as otherwise provided in the Financing Documents
and this Ordinance. The Bonds shall never constitute a general obligation of, an indebtedness of, or charge
against the general credit of the City. The Bonds shall be purchased by and delivered to the Developer.
The Bonds shall be subject to optional redemption as set forth in Section 5.1 of the Bond Indenture.

SECTION 4. The City reasonably expects (as defined in Treasury Regulation 1.148-1(b)) to use the proceeds
of the Bonds to reimburse expenditures for the Project as made prior to the completion of the final financing
package for said Project (a “Reimbursement Expenditure”). The City reasonably expects to reimburse each
Reimbursement Expenditure with funds made available as a result of such Bonds and intends that this
statement be a declaration of official intent under Treasury Regulation 1.150-2(e). There are no funds from
sources other than the Bonds that are, or are reasonably expected to be, reserved, allocated on a long-term
basis, or otherwise set aside of the City or by any member of the same controlled group (as defined in Treasury
Regulation 1.150-1(e)) as the City pursuant to their budget and financial policies with respect to any
Reimbursement Expenditure.

SECTION 5. The Mayor, the Controller, and any other officer of the City are authorized and directed to
execute the Financing Documents, such other documents approved or authorized herein and any other
document which may be necessary, appropriate, or desirable to consummate the transaction contemplated
by the Financing Documents and this Ordinance, and their execution is hereby confirmed on behalf of the
City. The signatures of the Mayor, the Controller, and any other officer of the City on the Bonds which may
be necessary or desirable to consummate the transactions, and their execution is hereby confirmed on
behalf of the City. The signatures of the Mayor, the Controller, and any other officer of the City on the
Bonds may be facsimile signatures. The Mayor, the Controller, and any other officer of the City are
authorized to arrange for the delivery of such Bonds to the purchaser, payment for which will be made in
the manner set forth in the respective Financing Documents. The Mayor, the Controller, and any other
officer of the may, by their execution of the Financing Documents requiring their signatures and
imprinting of their facsi signatures thereon, approve any and all such changes therein and also in those
Financing Documents which do not require the signature of the Mayor, the Controller, or any other officer
of the City without further approval of this City-County Council or the Commission if such changes do not
affect terms set forth in Sections 27(a)(1) through and including (a)(10) of the Act.

SECTION 6. The provisions of this Ordinance and the Financing Documents shall constitute a contract
binding between the City and the holder or holders of the Bonds and after the issuance of said Bonds, this
Ordinance shall not be repealed or amended in any respect which would adversely affect the right of such
holder or holders so long as said Bonds or the respective interest thereon remains unpaid.

SECTION 7. The Mayor and the Clerk, or any other officer having responsibility with respect to the issuance
of the Bonds, are authorized and directed, alone or in conjunction with any of the foregoing, or with any
other officer, employee, consultant or agent of the City, to deliver a certificate for inclusion in the transcript
of proceedings for the Bonds, setting forth the facts, estimates and circumstances, and reasonable
expectations pertaining to the use of the Bond proceeds as of the date of issuance thereof.

SECTION 8. No recourse under or upon any obligation, covenant, acceptance, or agreement contained in

this ordinance, the Financing Documents, or under any judgment obtained against the City, including

without limitation the Commission, or by the enforcement of any assessment or by any legal or equitable

proceeding by virtue of any constitution or statute or otherwise, or under any circumstances, under or
SPECIAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2022

=== 56-2022 proposal document, page 4 of 7 (OCR) ===
S.O. No. 2, 2022
Page 4

independent of the Financing Agreement, shall be had against any member, director, or officer or attorney,
as such, past, present, or future, of the City, including without limitation the Commission, either directly or
through the City, or otherwise, for the payment for or to the City or any receiver thereof or for or to any
holder of the Bonds secured thereby, or otherwise, of any sum that may remain due and unpaid by the City
upon any of such Bonds. Any and all personal liability of every nature, whether at common law or in equity,
or by statute or by constitution or otherwise, of any such member, director, or officer or attorney, as such,
to respond by reason of any act or omission on his or her part or otherwise for, directly or indirectly, the
payment for or to the City or any receiver thereof, or for or to any owner or holder of the Bonds, or otherwise,
of any sum that may remain due and unpaid upon the Bonds hereby secured or any of them, shall be
expressly waived and released as a condition of and consideration for the execution and delivery of the
Financing Agreement and the issuance, sale and delivery of the Bonds.

SECTION 9. If any section, paragraph, or provision of this Ordinance shall be held to be invalid or
unenforceable for any reason, the invalidity or unenforceability of such section, paragraph, or provision
shall not affect any of the remaining provisions of this Ordinance.

SECTION 10. All ordinances, resolutions, and orders, or parts thereof, in conflict with the provisions of this
Ordinance are, to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.

SECTION 11. ft is hereby determined that all formal actions of the City-County Council relating to the
adoption of this Ordinance were taken in one or more open meetings of the City-County Council, that all
deliberations of the City-County Council and of its committees, if any, which resulted in formal action, were
in meetings open to the public, and that all such meetings were convened, held, and conducted
compliance with applicable legal requirements, including Indiana Code 5-14-1.5, as amended.

SECTION 12. The Mayor, the Controller, the Clerk, and any other officer of the City are hereby authorized
and directed, in the name and on behalf of the City, to execute and deliver such further documents and to
take such further actions as such person deems necessary or desirable to effect the purposes of this
Ordinance, and any such documents heretofore executed and delivered and any such actions heretofore
taken, be, and hereby are, ratified and approved.

SECTION 13. This Ordinance shall be in full force and effect upon compliance with Indiana Code 36-3-4-
14.

The foregoing was passed by the City-County Council this 7" day of March, 2022, at 8:21 p.m.

ATTEST:

ity-County Council

Pv bllaghes idg

SaRita Hughes
Clerk, City-County Council

Presented by me to the Mayor this 8 day of March, ——_
Sm, a
Clerk, City-County Council

Tas
Approved and signed by methis_ ©‘ day of March, 2022. ad

oseph H. Hogsett, Clef

SPECIAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2022

=== 56-2022 proposal document, page 5 of 7 (OCR) ===
$.O. No. 2, 2022
Page 5

STATE OF INDIANA, MARION COUNTY)
) $S:
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS )

|, SaRita Hughes, Clerk of the City-County Council, Indianapolis, Marion County, Indiana, do hereby certify

the above and foregoing is a full, true, and complete copy of Proposal No. 56, 2022, a Proposal fora SPECIAL

ORDINANCE passed by the City-County Council on the 7" day of March, 2022, by a vote of 17 YEAS and

6 wie - was retitled Special Ordinance No. 2, 2022, which was signed by the Mayor on the
day of March, 2022, and now remains on file and on record in my office.

WITNESS my hand and the official seal of the City of Indianapolis, Indiana, this / y day of March, 2022.
Sed

SaRita Hughes
Clerk, City-County Council

(SEAL)

SPECIAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2022

=== 56-2022 proposal document, page 6 of 7 (OCR) ===
S.O. No. 2, 2022
Page 6

A LIST OF EXHIBITS which can be found online at:
https:/Avww. indy gov/activity/current-council-proposals

e EXHIBIT A Includes:

Oo

9 00 0 0

eo

Introductory Letter and Notice of Meeting and Agenda of the Economic Development
Commission (EDC)

Project Report of the EDC

EDC Reseiution

Financing and Loan Agreement

Staff Report to the EDC

XBE. Good Faith Memo and Plan

Letters of Support

« EXHIBIT B: Project Application
« EXHIBIT C: Trust Indenture
« EXHIBIT D: Project PowerPoint Presentation

SPECIAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2022

=== 56-2022 proposal document, page 7 of 7 (OCR) ===
Indianapolis City - County Council RCS# 554

2020-2023
2020-2023
3/7/2022 8:21 PM
VOTED AS PART OF
GROUP RCS #552
Proposal: PROP22- 56 Ordinance: S.O. 2 (PASSED)
Sponsor: Osili
Action: Adopt
Committee: Metro. and Econ. Dev.
Yea: 17 Nay: 6 Abstain: 1 Not Voting: 0 Excused: 1

Yea-17

Adamson Gray Lewis Osili

Barth Jackson Mascari Potts

Brown Jones McCormick Ray

Evans-J Larrison Oliver Robinson

Graves
Nay - 6

Annee Dilk Hart Mowery

Bain Evans-E
Abstain - 1

Boots
Excused - 1

Carlino

Excused - 0
