=== 56-2023 proposal document, page 1 of 3 (OCR) ===
CITY-COUNTY SPECIAL RESOLUTION NO. 11, 2023
Proposal No. 56, 2023

A SPECIAL RESOLUTION recognizing the anniversary of the Indianapolis Government Alliance for Racial
Equity, a steering committee comprised of municipal leaders from various County and City departments
committed to addressing racial inequities within the City of Indianapolis.

WHEREAS, in 2019, more than 100 local leaders from all three branches of local government, including
Mayor Hogsett and members of his administration, members of the City-County Council, members of the
Marion Superior Court executive committee, county-wide elected officials, leaders of local municipal
corporations and criminal justice agencies, and representatives from anchor institutions IUPUI and Central
Indiana Community Foundation were convened for a workshop with the Government Alliance on Race and
Equity; and

WHEREAS, in February 2020, over two dozen of those leaders, including representatives of this body,
county-wide elected officials, and leaders from the Administration, the Marion County Prosecutor's office,
the Marion County Sheriffs Department, the Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department, Community
Corrections, and Municipal Corporations stepped forward to form the Indianapolis Government Alliance for
Racial Equity, a Steering Committee to assume responsibility for advancing the work to end racial and
social disparities in Indianapolis, and embed in our collective DNA a commitment to addressing historical
inequities surrounding throughout the enterprise and Indianapolis; and

WHEREAS, Indianapolis Government Alliance for Racial Equity (GARE) was created and tasked with
developing a strategy to end racial disparities in Indianapolis, and directing City and County departments
and other agencies to use available tools to assist in the elimination of racial and social disparities across
key indicators of success, including health, education, criminal justice, the environment, employment, and
the economy; and to promote equity within the City-County workplace and in the delivery of City-County
services; and

WHEREAS, as a result of GARE, Budgeting for Equity was developed, which is a process through
which equity is incorporated into budget planning for every city and county department. This tool has
created a formal and structural way for departments to identify how they are integrating equity into their
budgets and where they are facing challenges; and

WHEREAS, the City-County Council has partnered with SAVI, a program of The Polis Center at Indiana
University — Purdue University Indianapolis, to develop an Equity Report Card for Indianapolis, which will
be used to continuously measure equity; and

WHEREAS, the City of Indianapolis has hired a Chief Diversity & Equity Officer, the first in the city’s
history, to be responsible for executive-level strategy, development, and implementation of results-focused
policies and strategies to support the City of Indianapolis’ diversity, equity, inclusion and accessibility efforts
across departments and agencies; and

WHEREAS, this Council reaffirms its commitment to equity by creating a welcoming and inclusive city
for all people to succeed, regardless of race, religion, sexual orientation, gender, ability, and national origin;
now, therefore:

BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA:

SECTION 1. The City-County Council firmly believes that addressing historical inequities is the key to the
health and safety of our entire City and would like to thank members of the indianapolis Government
Alliance for Racial Equity for their commitment and dedication.

SECTION 2. The City-County Council is committed to continuing to work with Mayor Hogsett, and all City
leaders, departments, and community partners to promote racial and social equity in Indianapolis and in
the delivery of City and County services.

SECTION 3. The Mayor is invited to join in this resolution by affixing his signature hereto.

SECTION 4. This resolution shall be in full force and effect upon adoption and compliance with IC 36-3-4-
14.

SPECIAL RESOLUTION RECORD 2023

=== 56-2023 proposal document, page 2 of 3 (OCR) ===
S.R. No. 11, 2023
Page 2

The foregoing was passed by the City-County Council this 6 day of February, 2023, at 7:47 p.m.

ATTEST:

Vop Osili

Presid ity-County Council

Yulonda Winfield
Clerk, City-County Council

Presented by me to the Mayor this 7" day of February, 2023

Yulonda Winfield
Clerk, City-County Council

Approved and signed by me this O day of February, 2023.

Joséph H. Hogsett, Mayor cf

STATE OF INDIANA, MARION COUNTY)
) SS:
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS )

|, Yulonda Winfield, Clerk of the City-County Council, Indianapolis, Marion County, Indiana, do hereby certify
the above and foregoing is a full, true, and complete copy of Proposal No. 56, 2023, a Proposal fora SPECIAL
RESOLUTION passed by the City-County Council on the 6" day of February, 2023, by a unanimous voice
vote, and was retitled Special Resolution No. 11, 2023, which was signed by the Mayor on the
woseth. ‘day of February, 2023, and now remains on file and on record in my office.

WITNESS my hand and the official seal of the City of Indianapolis, Indiana, this sib day of February, 2023.

Yulonda Winfield
Clerk, City-County Council
(SEAL)

SPECIAL RESOLUTION RECORD 2023

=== 56-2023 proposal document, page 3 of 3 (OCR) ===
Indianapolis City - County Council RCS# 1040
2020-2023
2020-2023

2/6/2023 7:47 PM
Proposal: PROP23- 56 Ordinance: S.R. 11 (PASSED)
Sponsor: Adamson,Boots, Brown,Graves, Potts, Robinson,Jones,Ma

Action: Adopt
Committee: Whole

- VOTED BY UNANIMOUS CONSENT -

Yea: 25 Nay: 0 Abstain: 0 Not Voting: 0 Excused: 0

Yea - 25
Adamson Dilk Jackson Mowery
Annee Evans-E Jones Oliver
Bain Evans-J Larrison Osili
Barth Graves Lewis Potts
Boots Gray Mascari Ray
Brown Hart McCormick Robinson
Carlino

Nay - 0

Abstain - 0

Not Voting - 0

Excused - 0
