=== 69-2023 proposal document, page 1 of 2 (OCR) ===
CITY-COUNTY GENERAL ORDINANCE NO. 9, 2023
Proposal No. 69, 2023

PROPOSAL FOR A GENERAL ORDINANCE to amend the Revised Code to extend the age of taxicab
model years.

BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA:

SECTION 1. Chapter 996-72 of the "Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County,” regarding
Taxicab License Eligibility, hereby is amended by the deletion of the language that is stricken-through, and
by the addition of the language that is underscored, to read as follows:

Sec. 996-72. Eligibility.
To be eligible for a taxicab license, a public vehicle for hire must:
(1) Meet the general licensure requirements for public vehicles for hire;
(2) Be either:
a. Of the current or past six (6) model years: or

b. Beyond the past six (6) years but not more than ten-(40} fifteen (15) model years and
inspected and approved annually by the city garage and the license administrator as
remaining fit for quality service both mechanically and aesthetically;

(3) Be equipped with a certified taximeter;
(4) Have an affixed top light clearly identifying the vehicle as a taxicab;

(5) Have a color and conspicuous design scheme that is the same for all taxicabs owned by the
same person, and that is either:

a. Not similar to that in use by any taxicab licensed to another licensee; or

b. Similar to that of a taxicab licensed to a licensee who has consented to such use of the color
scheme; and
(6) Have affixed to both sides and the rear of the vehicle the license administrator's license number
for the taxicab in a format prescribed by the license administrator, designed to be readable by
potential customers.

SECTION 2. The expressed or implied repeai or amendment by this ordinance of any other ordinance or
part of any other ordinance does not affect any rights or ies accrued, penalties incurred, or
proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this ordinance. Those rights, lia Ss, and proceedings
are continued, and penalties shall be imposed and enforced under the repealed or amended ordinance as
if this ordinance had not been adopted.

SECTION 3. Should any provision (section, paragraph, sentence, clause, or any other portion) of this
ordinance be declared by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, the remaining
provision or provisions shail not be affected, if and only if such remaining provisions can, without the invalid
provision or provisions, be given the effect intended by the Council in adopting this ordinance. To this end
the provisions of this ordinance are severable.

SECTION 4. This ordinance shall be in effect from and after its passage by the Council and compliance
with Ind. Code § 36-3-4-14.

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2023

=== 69-2023 proposal document, page 2 of 2 (OCR) ===
G.O. No. 9, 2023
Page 2

The foregoing was passed by the City-County Council this 3% day of April, 2023, at 7:34 p.m.

ATTEST:

Vop Osili

Presid. ity-County Council

Yulonda Winfield
Clerk, City-County Council

Presented by me to the Mayor this 4!" day of April, 2023

Yulonda Winfield
Clerk, City-County Council

Approved and signed by me this i (th. day of April, 2023.

3 H. HogSett, Mayor

|, Yulonda Winfield, Clerk of the City-County Council, Indianapolis, Marion County, Indiana, do hereby certify

the above and foregoing is a full, true, and complete copy of Proposal No. 69, 2023, a Proposal for a

GENERAL ORDINANCE passed by the City-County Council on the 3" day of April, 2023, by a vote of 24

YEAS and 0 NAYS, and was retitled General Ordinance No. 9, 2023, which was signed by the Mayor on the
l day of April, 2023, and now remains on file and on record in my office.

STATE OF INDIANA, MARION COUNTY)
) ss:
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS )

WITNESS my hand and the official seal of the City of indianapolis, Indiana, this _/ CP, of April, 2023.

Yulonda Winfield
Clerk, City-County Council
(SEAL)

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2023
