=== 7-2025 proposal document, page 1 of 7 ===
CITY COUNTY COUNCIL PROPOSAL NO. 7, 2025 
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS-MARION COUNTY, INDIANA 
 
INTRODUCED:  1/8/2025    
 
REFERRED TO:  Education Committee 
 
SPONSOR: Councilor Graves 
 
DIGEST:  amends Chapter 271 of the Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County to add a 
Reading Elevation Program 
 
 
SOURCE:   
Initiated by:  
Drafted by: LeAnnette Pierce 
 
LEGAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ADOPTION: PROPOSED EFFECTIVE DATE: 
 Adoption and approvals 
 
GENERAL COUNSEL APPROVAL:  _________________________________  Date:  January 2, 2025 
 
 
CITY-COUNTY GENERAL ORDINANCE NO. ___, 2025 
 
PROPOSAL FOR A GENERAL ORDINANCE to amend Chapter 271 of the Revised Code of the 
Consolidated City and County to add a Reading Elevation Program. 
 
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE 
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA: 
 
SECTION 1.  Chapter 271 of the Revised Code of the Consolidated City and is hereby amended by 
adding the sections that are underlined and deleting the sections that have been stricken through to read 
as follows: 
 
Chapter 271 PUBLIC ART FOR NEIGHBORHOODS INCENTIVE GRANT PROGRAMS 
 
ARTICLE I.  PROGRAM ESTABLISHMENT 
 
Sec. 271-101. Incentive Grant Programs Established. 
 
The Indianapolis -Marion County Public Art for Neighborhoods  Incentive Grant Program is 
hereby established.  
 
Sec. 271-102. Purpose. 
 
The city accepts responsibility for expanding the opportunity for its citizens to experience art 
in, and for the beautification of, public places. The city also recognizes that the inclusion of public 
art in appropriate locations will promote the cultural heritage and artistic development of the city, 
enhance the city's character and identity, contribute to economic development and tourism, 
improve public safety, add warmth, dignity, beauty and accessibility to public spaces, and expand 
the experience and participation of citizens with the arts. A policy is therefore established to direct 
that funding for the inclusion of works of art and beautification of public space in certain capital 
improvement projects supported by the city be allocated through this public art for neighborhoods 
program.

=== 7-2025 proposal document, page 2 of 7 ===
Proposal No. 7, 2025 
Page 2 
 
 
It is the intent of this program to provide grants to programs that would not otherwise have a 
source of federal, state, or local funding.  
 
Sec. 271-103. Definitions. 
 
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this 
section:  
 
Affordable housing  means a residential rental housing project owned by a governmental 
entity, a non -profit entity described in Section 501(c)(3) and any other entity which operates the 
project in compliance with the provisions of Section 142(d)(1)(A) or (B) or Section 42(g) of the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and which serves one or more of the following 
purposes:  
 
(a) To benefit low-income and moderate-income persons;  
 
(b) To prevent or eliminate slums or blight; or  
 
(c) To respond to community development needs having a particular urgency because 
existing conditions pose a serious and immediate threat to the health or welfare of the 
community.  
 
Arts Council means the Arts Council of Indianapolis.  
 
Capital improvement project  means any capital project for which the city has provided or 
agreed to provide an economic incentive to a Recipient, for the construction or substantial 
renovation of any building, facility, or open space to which the public is generally invited; 
provided, however, that the term does not include the portion of a project that consists of 
affordable housing.  
 
Construction costs means the total amount appropriated or otherwise allocated for a capital 
improvement project (including funding from outside sources which permit the acquisition of 
artwork for the eligible project with such funds).  
 
Economic incentive means any direct or indirect use of tax increment funds for the benefit of 
a recipient Recipient, including but not limited to grants, loans, pledges, and bond sale proceeds.  
 
Public art for neighborhoods fund  means the special, non -reverting fund established by 
section 271-105 203.  
 
Public art for neighborhoods selection committee  means the selection committee created by 
section 271-106(b) 204(b).  
 
Reading elevation fund  means the special, non -reverting fund established by section 271 -
303. 
 
Reading elevation selection committee means the selection committee created by section 
271-304(b). 
 
Recipient means any individual, partnership, association, organization, corporation or other 
entity, whether public or private, whether for profit or not for profit, which receives an economic 
incentive from the city for a capital improvement project.  
 
Sec. 271-104. Funds for works of art and public space beautification.

=== 7-2025 proposal document, page 3 of 7 ===
Proposal No. 7, 2025 
Page 3 
 
This section applies only to economic incentive  project agreements executed on or after 
January 1, 2016. If the estimated construction costs of a capital improvement project exceed 
$100,000.00, and if the city has provided or agreed to provide an economic incentive for the 
project, then as part of the overall project agreement between the city and the recipient, the 
recipient must agree to contribute, from non -incentive funds, an amount equal to one (1) percent 
of the estimated value of the economic incentive to the public art for neighborhoods fund created 
by section 271 -105. To the extent the recipient has already spent or agreed to spend funds on 
public art as part of a particular project, the recipient shall receive a dollar for dollar credit up to an 
amount equal to one (1) percent of the estimated value of the economic incentive, pending 
approval by the selection committee.  
 
Sec. 271-105. Public art for neighborhoods fund. 
 
There is hereby created a special fund, to be designated as the "public art for neighborhoods 
fund." This fund shall be a continuing, nonreverting fund, with all balances remaining therein at 
the end of the year, and such balances shall not revert to the city or county general funds. The 
controller shall deposit in the public art fund all money received pursuant to section 271 -104 for 
the selection, acquisition, commissioning, maintenance, display of artwork, public space 
beautification and expanded opportunities for community engagement with the arts.  
 
Sec. 271-106. Public art grants program. 
 
(a) The council may appropriate money from the public art for neighborhoods fund for the 
purpose of annually awarding sub -grants for public art and public space beautification. The 
council's appropriation for the purpose of the public art and public space beautification grants 
program shall be administered by the Arts Council of Indianapolis. Upon appropriation from 
the council for the public art grants program, the controller shall expend the appropriation to 
the Arts Council as an all -purpose grant and enter into agreements for the establishment of 
guidelines, application processes, and other criteria for multiple public purpose sub -grants in 
support of the council's desire to fund the selection, acquisition, commissioning, 
maintenance, display of artwork, public space beautification and expanded opportunities for 
community engagement with the arts. The Arts Council's guidelines shall establish protocols 
to ensure that the public art for neighborhoods program is geographically balanced and 
provides opportunities for neighborhoods to present projects that will install art projects in 
public space and to beautify public space. Projects may be located anywhere in the county.  
 
(b) There is hereby created a public art for neighborhoods selection committee, composed of ten 
(10) members, with six (6) members appointed by the Arts Council, two (2) members 
appointed by the mayor, and two (2) members appointed by the city -county council. The 
members shall serve for terms of two (2) years and are eligible for reappointment. The Arts 
Council will name the chair of the selection committee. The members must have an interest 
in and understanding of city planning, neighborhood and community development, urban 
design, or the arts. The committee shall hold public meetings to determine the sub -grant 
recipients and shall consider the following elements, at a minimum, in evaluating projects; the 
level of community and neighborhood support; the opportunity for economic development; the 
ability to aid crime prevention; the design or artistic merit; the cost of the project; and the 
potential overall effect on quality of life in the neighborhood.  
 
(c) In addition, the selection committee shall award at least fifty (50) percent of the total amount 
of the sub-grants for projects in neighborhoods where the average income is at or below one 
hundred thirty-eight (138) percent of the federal poverty line.  
 
Sec. 271-107. Reporting and oversight. 
 
The Arts Council shall provide an annual written report to the full council on what individuals 
and organizations received sub -grants from this process. This report shall be provided to the 
president of the council and all council members by December 1 of each year that appropriations 
were made to administer the program. The Arts Council shall also make an annual report in

=== 7-2025 proposal document, page 4 of 7 ===
Proposal No. 7, 2025 
Page 4 
 
person to a committee designated by the president of the council. This presentation will include a 
full review of the practices, policies and procedures used to award sub -grants, as well as 
information on other outcomes resulting from the placement of projects.  
 
ARTICLE II.  PUBLIC ARTS FOR NEIGHBORHOODS PROGRAM 
 
Sec. 271- 102 201. Public Arts for Neighborhoods - Purpose. 
 
The city accepts responsibility for expanding the opportunity for its citizens to experience art 
in, and for the beautification of, public places. The city also recognizes that the inclusion of public 
art in appropriate locations will promote the cultural heritage and artistic development of the city, 
enhance the city's character and identity, contribute to economic development and tourism, 
improve public safety, add warmth, dignity, beauty and accessibility to public spaces, and expand 
the experience and participation of citizens with the arts. A policy is therefore established to direct 
that funding for the inclusion of works of art and beautification of public space in certain capital 
improvement projects supported by the city be allocated through this public art for neighborhoods 
program.  
 
Sec. 271-104 202. Funds for works of art and public space beautification. 
 
This section applies only to economic incentive  project agreements executed on or after 
January 1, 2016. If the estimated construction costs of a capital improvement project exceed 
$100,000.00, and if the city has provided or agreed to provide an economic incentive for the 
project, then as part of the overall project agreement between the city and the recipient Recipient, 
the recipient Recipient must agree to contribute, from non -incentive funds, an amount equal to 
one (1) percent of the estimated value of the economic incentive to the public art for 
neighborhoods fund created by section 271 -105 203. To the extent the recipient Recipient has 
already spent or agreed to spend funds on public art as part of a particular project, the recipient 
Recipient shall receive a dollar for dollar credit up to an amount equal to one (1) percent of the 
estimated value of the economic incentive, pending approval by the selection committee.  
 
Sec. 271-105 203. Public art for neighborhoods fund. 
 
There is hereby created a special fund, to be designated as the "public art for neighborhoods 
fund." This fund shall be a continuing, nonreverting fund, with all balances remaining therein at 
the end of the year, and such balances shall not revert to the city or county general funds. The 
controller shall deposit in the public art fund all money received pursuant to section 271 -104 202 
for the selection, acquisition, commissioning, maintenance, display of artwork, public space 
beautification and expanded opportunities for community engagement with the arts.  
 
Sec. 271-106 204. Public art grants program. 
 
(a) The council may appropriate money from the public art for neighborhoods fund for the 
purpose of annually awarding sub -grants for public art and public space beautification. The 
council's appropriation for the purpose of the public art and public space beautification grants 
program shall be administered by the Arts Council of Indianapolis. Upon appropriation from 
the council for the public art grants program, the controller shall expend the appropriation to 
the Arts Council as an all -purpose grant and enter into agreements for the establishment of 
guidelines, application processes, and other criteria for multiple public purpose sub -grants in 
support of the council's desire to fund the selection, acquisition, commissioning, 
maintenance, display of artwork, public space beautification and expanded opportunities for 
community engagement with the arts. The Arts Council's guidelines shall establish protocols 
to ensure that the public art for neighborhoods program is geographically balanced and 
provides opportunities for neighborhoods to present projects that will install art projects in 
public space and to beautify public space. Projects may be located anywhere in the county.

=== 7-2025 proposal document, page 5 of 7 ===
Proposal No. 7, 2025 
Page 5 
 
(b) There is hereby created a public art for neighborhoods selection committee, composed of ten 
(10) members, with six (6) members appointed by the Arts Council, two (2) members 
appointed by the mayor, and two (2) members appointed by the city -county council. The 
members shall serve for terms of two (2) years and are eligible for reappointment. The Arts 
Council will name the chair of the selection committee. The members must have an interest 
in and understanding of city planning, neighborhood and community development, urban 
design, or the arts. The committee shall hold public meetings to determine the sub -grant 
recipients and shall consider the following elements, at a minimum, in evaluating projects; the 
level of community and neighborhood support; the opportunity for economic development; the 
ability to aid crime prevention; the design or artistic merit; the cost of the project; and the 
potential overall effect on quality of life in the neighborhood.  
 
(c) In addition, the selection committee shall award at least fifty (50) percent of the total amount 
of the sub-grants for projects in neighborhoods where the average income is at or below one 
hundred thirty-eight (138) percent of the federal poverty line.  
 
Sec. 271-107205. Reporting and oversight. 
 
The Arts Council shall provide an annual written report to the full council on what individuals 
and organizations received sub -grants from this process. This report shall be provided to the 
president of the council and all council members by December 1 of each year that appropriations 
were made to administer the program. The Arts Council shall also make an annual report in 
person to a committee designated by the president of the council. This presentation will include a 
full review of the practices, policies and procedures used to award sub -grants, as well as 
information on other outcomes resulting from the placement of projects.  
 
ARTICLE III. – READING ELEVATION PROGRAM 
 
Sec. 271-301. Reading elevation program – Purpose 
 
The city recognizes the critical importance reading plays in the lives of our citizens and the 
future of our community.  The city acknowledges that, for a variety of reasons, there are children 
reading below grade level.  It is the intent of this ordinance to provide grant funds to programs 
that can assist in elevating or otherwise improving the reading levels of Indianapolis public school 
students currently reading below their grade level. 
 
Sec. 271-302. Funds for reading elevation program. 
 
(a) This section applies to economic incentive project agreements executed on or after January 
1, 2025. If the estimated construction costs of a capital improvement project exceed 
$1,000,000.00, and if the city has provided or agreed to provide an economic incentive for the 
project, then as part of the overall project agreement between the city and the Recipient, the 
Recipient must agree to contribute, from non -incentive funds, an amount equal to one (1) 
percent of the estimated value of the economic incentive to the reading elevation program 
fund created by section 271-303.   
 
(b) The city shall provide initial seed money in the amount of $340,000.00 to provide for the initial 
administration of the program.  This money shall remain a portion of the reading elevation 
program fund created by section 271 -303 and shall be used solely for the administration of 
the program.  The Office of Education Innovation shall be intitled to an annual fee from this 
fund to administer the program. 
 
(c) By February 1 st of each calendar year, the Department of Metropolitan Development shall 
provide an annual incentive project report to the council’s education committee.  This report 
shall include, but not be limited to, itemizing the project costs associated with the incentive 
projects approved by council over the course of the previous year, the anticipated amount of

=== 7-2025 proposal document, page 6 of 7 ===
Proposal No. 7, 2025 
Page 6 
 
incentive and non -incentive funding for each project, and the projected amount to be 
deposited into the program fund. 
 
Sec. 271- 303. Reading elevation fund. 
 
There is hereby created a special fund, to be designated as the "Indianapolis-Marion County 
Reading Elevation Fund." This fund shall be a continuing, nonreverting fund, with all balances 
remaining therein at the end of the year, and such balances shall not revert to the city or county 
general funds. The controller shall deposit in the Reading Elevation Fund all money received 
pursuant to section 271-302 for expenditures consistent with the provisions of this ordinance. 
 
Sec. 271-304. Reading elevation grants program. 
 
(a) The council may appropriate money from the reading elevation fund for the purpose of 
awarding grants to programs providing reading assistance to public school students reading 
below grade level. The council's appropriation for the purpose of the reading elevation grants 
program shall be administered by the Office of Education Innovation (OEI) in conjunction with 
the council’s Education Committee. Upon appropriation from the council for the reading 
elevation grants program, the OEI shall expend the appropriation as all -purpose grants.  The 
OEI shall establish guidelines, application processes, and other criteria established or 
approved by the Education Committee for multiple public purpose grants in support of the 
council's desire to fund programs with demonstrable results in providing increases in reading 
skills.  The OEI guidelines shall establish protocols to ensure that the proceeds from the 
program provide opportunities for any public -school students reading below grade level to 
obtain assistance. Projects must be located within Marion County. 
 
(b) In addition to the administration fee allowed by section 271 -302(b), the OEI shall be entitled 
to obtain a grant for any self -run program meeting the criteria describe in section 271 -304(a).  
However, any grant received by the OEI shall not exceed 15% of the total grant distribution in 
any round of grant disbursement.   
 
(c) There is hereby created a reading elevation program selection committee.  The director of the 
OEI shall be the chair an ex officio member of the committee.  The members of the 
committee shall be composed of seven (7) members as follows: 
 
(1) Four (4) members appointed by the city -county council, 2 of whom shall community 
members and 2 of whom shall have experience in the field of education.  
(2) Three (3) members appointed by the mayor.  
 
(d) The members shall serve for terms of two (2) years and are eligible for reappointment. The 
members must be Marion County residents and have an interest in and understanding of 
education and literacy. The committee shall hold public meetings to determine the sub -grant 
recipients and shall evaluate the performance of any program receiving funding.  After the 
first year, the selection committee shall take into consideration the opinions of the parents of 
children involved prior to reauthorizing a subgrantee. 
 
(d) In addition, the selection committee shall award at least fifty (50) percent of the total amount 
of the sub-grants for projects in neighborhoods where the average income is at or below one 
hundred thirty-eight (138) percent of the federal poverty line.  
 
Sec. 271-305. Reporting and oversight. 
 
The Office of Education Innovation shall provide an annual written report to the full council on 
the individuals and organizations that received sub -grants from this process. This report shall be 
provided to the president of the council and all council members by December 1 of each year that 
appropriations were made to administer the program. The OEI shall also make an annual report 
in person to the council’s Education Committee. This presentation shall include a full review of the

=== 7-2025 proposal document, page 7 of 7 ===
Proposal No. 7, 2025 
Page 7 
 
practices, policies and procedures used to award sub -grants, as well as information on other 
outcomes resulting from the placement of projects. In addition, parents of children receiving 
assistance shall be invited to report to the committee their thoughts on the program or progress of 
their individual student. 
 
SECTION 2.  The expressed or implied repeal or amendment by this ordinance of any other ordinance or 
part of any other ordinance does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred, or 
proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this ordinance.  Those rights, liabilities, and proceedings 
are continued, and penalties shall be imposed and enforced under the repealed or amended ordinance as 
if this ordinance had not been adopted.  
 
SECTION 3.  Should any provision (section , paragraph, sentence, clause, or any other portion) of this 
ordinance be declared by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, the remaining 
provision or provisions shall not be affected, if and only if such remaining provisions can, without the 
invalid provision or provisions, be given the effect intended by the Council in adopting this ordinance.  To 
this end the provisions of this ordinance are severable.  
  
SECTION 4.  This ordinance shall be in effect from and after its passage by the Council and compliance 
with Ind. Code § 36-3-4-14.  
 
The foregoing was passed by the City -County Council this _____ day of __________, 2025, at _____ 
p.m. 
 
ATTEST: 
 
 _____________________________________  
 Vop Osili 
 President, City-County Council 
____________________________________ 
Yulonda Winfield 
Clerk, City-County Council
