=== 76-2021 proposal document, page 1 of 6 (OCR) ===
CITY-COUNTY GENERAL ORDINANCE NO. 6, 2021
Proposal No. 76, 2021

A PROPOSAL FOR A GENERAL ORDINANCE amending Chapter 231 of the Code regarding protections for
the homeless.

BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA:

SECTION 1. Chapter 231, Article V of the "Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County" hereby is
amended by deleting the language that is stricken-through and adding the language that is underlined to read
as follows:

ARTICLE V. - PROTECTIONS FOR THE HOMELESS
Sec. 234-501. - Purpose and intent.

No person should suffer unnecessarily or be subject to unfair discrimination or arbitrary treatment
based on his or her homeless status. It is the intent of this article to lessen the adverse effects and
conditions caused by the lack of a home or residence.

Sec. 231-502. - Definitions.

For purposes of this article:

(a) The term “emergency” means a situations when a failure to act immediately could lead to serious
harm to public health or safety. An emergency for purposes of this chapter occurs when one or more of
the following conditions exist:

(1) Acamp being used by homeless persons has accumulated food waste, human waste, or
other litter to a degree that the Marion County Public Health Department or other public
health authority determines that the camp presents a public health hazard to the
residents of the camp or the public that cannot adequately be redressed by less
disruptive clean-up measures;

(2) A camp being used by homeless persons has been established in an enclosed area,
such as an underpass or tunnel, used by large numbers of pedestrians or motor vehicles,
and public safety or law enforcement officials determine that the threat of concealed
explosives or other devices presents a threat to public safety; or

(3) Other circumstances exist that present a significant threat to the public health or safety,
as documented by the process required in Section 231-506 below.

(b) The term "homeless" has the definition set forth at 24 CFR Sections 91.5, 582.5, and 583.5.

(c) The term "camp” means a place on public property with temporary accommodations of tents or
other structures in which homeless persons have-been-living are sleeping overnight or storing their

property.

(d) The term “displacement” means action by the city that prevents camp residents from using a
camp for at least one full 24-hour period. Sidewalk or street cleanings, or removals of unattended
or abandoned personal property, do not constitute a displacement for purposes of this article.

(e) The term “established camp” means a camp that has been located in the same place and
occupied continuously for at least seven (7) calendar days.

(f) The term “shelter space” means an accommodation at a facility or location, approved by the city,
where residents are offered, free of charge, a place to sleep that is secure, affords some protection from
the elements, and has access to basic hygiene facilities. The term may include safe camping sites or low-
barrier shelters established pursuant to Sec. 231-505. Shelter space offered by a religiously affiliated
organization may meet_this definition, but only if the shelter space is offered to residents without

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2021

=== 76-2021 proposal document, page 2 of 6 (OCR) ===
G.O. No. 6, 2024
Page 2

discrimination on the basis of race, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, or religion, and is offered without
a requirement that the residents engage in religious activities or submit to religious messaging.

Sec. 231-503. - Protections in the event of displacement.

The office of public health and safety (OPHS) may temporarily or permanently close any public
property or public right of way to camps and require any residents currently camping in the area to cease
camping in the area and remove any stored personal property from the area, but only if OPHS follows the
procedures described below and sufficient temporary housing or shelter space is available for residents
who will be displaced by the closure. OPHS will reach a memorandum of understanding or agreement
with the Blueprint Council of the Indianapolis Continuum of Care to designate partner entities for roles
in the notice and outreach procedures described below.

(a) if a homeless person is to be displaced from a camp, the-city, through the department of public
works; must offer fo maintain and catalogue their the_person’s personal items, including but not limited to,
clothing, blankets, identification documents, birth certificates, and other personal documents and effects, in
a safe and secure place for a minimum of sixty (60) days. After sixty (60) days, if the city has made
reasonable efforts to notify the displaced person, the city may securely dispose of any unclaimed personal
items. For purposes of this subsection, the obligations to maintain and catalogue personal items shall be
limited to those items that may fit entirely within one ninety-six-gallon container per displaced person.

- Before OPHS may displace a person from an established
camp, at least fifteen (15) days’ advance notice must be given to the affected person and to designated
service providers and street outreach teams. Before displacing a person from a camp that is not an
established camp, at least forty-eight (48) hours’ advance notice must be given to the affected person
and to designated service providers and street outreach teams. Posting of a written notice in the area
will satisfy this advance notice requirement, but_all reasonable efforts should be made to provide
individualized verbal notice as well.

(c} Upon receiving providing the notice described in subsection (b), OPHS will coordinate the efforts
of all participating service providers, faith-based organizations, street ministries, the Reuben-Engagement
Assessment & Intervention Center, and volunteers to ensure that the homeless persons to be displaced
are offered i i Hh i permanent housing, transitional housing, temporary
housing, or available shelter space (which may include a safe camping site, temporary hotel shelter, or
other shelter options), reasonable assistance in transportation to housing or shelter options that are offered,

and comprehensive wrap-around services for which they are eligible,-unless_the homeless-persen_refuses
the-assisiance. If temporary, transitional, or permanent housing is offered, it must be safe, reasonably clean

and maintained, and approved by the city.

(d) OPHS or a designated partner entity will gather and maintain accurate data on the number of
people impacted by camp closures and the resources offered to affected individuals, OPHS and service
providers will monitor data to ensure that racial equity considerations guide OPHS actions and outreach
efforts.

SECTION 2. Chapter 231, Article V of the "Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County" is hereby
amended by adding Sections 231-504 through 231-508 to read as follows:

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2021

=== 76-2021 proposal document, page 3 of 6 (OCR) ===
G.O. No. 6, 2021
Page 3

Sec. 231-504. - Permanent Camp Closure.

After OPHS has followed the procedures stated in Section 231-503, the city may keep an area
in which camps have been removed permanently closed to camps. Permanent closures may be made
only in areas with high levels of pedestrian traffic or areas that have required repeated clean-ups or
interventions by law enforcement. When the city permanently closes an area to camps, durable signs or
notices that the area is closed to camps must be prominently posted in the area.

lf an area has been permanently closed to camps and durable signs or notices are prominently
posted in the area stating that camping and storage of personal property is prohibited, new camps may
not be established in the area. The city may prohibit any person seeking to camp or store personal
property in such an area from doing so. The protections of Section 231-503 do not apply when a person
attempts to camp in an area that has already been closed to camping where durable signs or notices are
prominently posted.

Sec. 231-505. - Safe Camping Sites.

OPHS is directed to study the feasibility and cost of establishing one or more indoor or outdoor
safe camping sites for the benefit of residents of indianapolis experiencing homelessness. The study
process will include input from service providers and individuals with lived experience of homelessness.
Safe camping sites should have low barriers to entry, but permission to use a safe camping site may be
conditioned on agreeing to follow reasonable site rules relating to safety, health, and the prevention of
violence. If established, safe camping sites should have the following features:

(a) Tents or other structures arranged in an orderly fashion, adequately anchored in place, and in
safe surroundings, whether the sleeping area is located indoors or outdoors.

(b) Trash disposal facilities that are regularly serviced by the department of public works or a
contractor.

(c) Access to nearby restroom and shower facilities that are regularly serviced.

(d) An on-site service provider responsible for administering site rules; maintaining adequate
records; coordinating with other service providers, including case management, health care, and
housing navigation service providers; coordinating charitable distributions at the site; and
providing security.

(e) Reasonable accessibility to public transportation or other transportation options.
OPHS is directed to report its findings to the council on or before September 1, 2021.
Sec. 231-506. - Declaration of Emergency.

(a) The authority to declare an emergency under this article is granted to the director of OPHS.

(b) A declaration of emergency must be in writing and accompanied by a written statement from at
least one other city or county agency with relevant subject-matter expertise, substantiating the factual
basis for the declaration. The written declaration must specify in detail the geographic area to which the
declaration applies and the time frame in which the declaration applies. Emergency declarations shall be
available to the public online, and OPHS shall post prominent public notice of the emergency declaration
in the applicable area, and shall coordinate with service providers and related organizations to ensure
that affected residents receive as much notice as is reasonably possible.

(c) OPHS may close an area as to which an emergency has been declared under this section to
camping and storage of personal property for the duration of the emergency. The requirements of Section
231-503 do not apply in an area where an emergency has been declared, but all affected residents should
be given as much notice as is reasonably possible before the emergency closure goes into effect.

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2021

=== 76-2021 proposal document, page 4 of 6 (OCR) ===
G.O. No, 6, 2021
Page 4

Sec. 231-507. - Obstruction of Public Right of Way Prohibited.

Notwithstanding the other provisions of this Article, neither camping nor storing personal property
is permitted in a manner that wholly or partially obstructs pedestrian traffic on any sidewalk, street, or
other public right of way. A sidewalk, street, or other public right of way is partially obstructed if: (1) more
than one half of its width is blocked at any point, (2) the normal flow of pedestrians or vehicles is slowed
or subject to a bottleneck, or (3) pedestrians are required to step onto a street or otherwise expose
themselves to danger in order to pass around the camp or stored personal property.

The city shall give persons who are camping or storing personal property in a manner that
partially or wholly obstructs a public right of way the option of rearranging their camp or personal property
such that it does not wholly or partially obstruct the public right of way. If it is not possible for the camp
or stored personal property to be in the area without wholly or partially obstructing the right of way, or if
the person camping or storing personal property has been given at least one opportunity to remedy the
obstruction and has failed or refused to do so, then the person may be required to cease camping in the
area and to remove his or her personal property.

Sec. 231-508. - Designated Charitable Distribution Sites.

(a) OPHS is directed to establish, on or before July 1, 2021, designated charitable distribution sites in the
Downtown Indianapolis area. These designated charitable distribution sites should include any safe camping
sites that may be established.

(b) OPHS will act in consultation with Professional Blended Street Outreach and other members of the
professional service provider community to determine the appropriate locations for designated charitable
distribution sites, and will publish information regarding such sites on the OPHS website.

(c) Designated charitable distribution sites will be designed to help organizations and individuals who wish
to make charitable donations of food or other items to individuals experiencing homelessness, so that such
donations can be made in a more safe and orderly fashion. Accordingly:

(1) The City will ensure that all Marion County Public Health Department code requirements and
public health orders in place are observed at designated charitable distribution sites.

(2) The department of public works will coordinate with OPHS to provide litter disposal bins and
perform regular pick-ups at designated charitable distribution sites.

(3) OPHS may designate a community partner organization as a coordinating entity for a designated
charitable distribution site. OPHS and coordinating entities will make arrangements for storage
and reuse, wherever possible, of excess donated items to avoid waste and duplication.

SECTION 3. The expressed or implied repeal or amendment by this ordinance of any other ordinance or part
of any other ordinance does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred, or proceedings begun
prior to the effective date of this ordinance. Those rights, liabilities, and proceedings are continued, and
penalties shall be imposed and enforced under the repealed or amended ordinance as if this ordinance had
not been adopted.

SECTION 4. Should any provision (section, paragraph, sentence, clause, or any other portion) of this
ordinance be declared by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, the remaining provision
or provisions shall not be affected, if and only if such remaining provisions can, without the invalid provision or
provisions, be given the effect intended by the Council in adopting this ordinance. To this end the provisions
of this ordinance are severable.

SECTION 5. This ordinance shall be in effect from and after its passage by the Coun
Ind. Code § 36-3-4-14.

and compliance with

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2021

=== 76-2021 proposal document, page 5 of 6 (OCR) ===
G.O. No. 6, 2021
Page 5

The foregoing was passed by the City-County Council this 22°4 day of Rebruary, 2021, at 9:11 p.m.

ATTEST:

Vop Osili

>. dd 7]
EPA kag hos Presidefit, City-County Council

SaRita Hughes
Clerk, City-County Council

Presented by me to the Mayor this 23@ day of February, 2021.

SRA
SaRita Hughes ”
Clerk, City-County Council

Approved and signed by me this L* day of March: , 2021.

J . Hogsétt, Mayor

STATE OF INDIANA, MARION COUNTY)
) Ss:
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS )

|, SaRita Hughes, Clerk of the City-County Council, Indianapolis, Marion County, Indiana, do hereby certify
the above and foregoing is a full, true, and complete copy of Proposal No. 76, 2021, a Proposal for a
GENERAL ORDINANCE passed by the City-County Council on the 224 day of February, 2021, by a vote of
20 YEAS and 4 NAYS, and was retjtied General Ordinance No. 6, 2021, which was signed by the Mayor on
the T3t day of Mares , 2021, and now remains on file and on record in my office.

WITNESS my hand and the official seal of the City of Indianapolis, Indiana, this jE day of March,
2021.

SaRita Hughes
Clerk, City-County Council

(SEAL)

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2021

=== 76-2021 proposal document, page 6 of 6 (OCR) ===
INDIANAPOLIS-MARION COUNTY CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL
(Via Webex)

Date: February 22, 2021

Time: 9:17 p.m.

PROPOSAL NO:_PROP21-076 ORDINANCE NO:___ (G.O.) 6

SPONSOR:  Qsili, Robinson, J. Evans

ACTION: ADOPT (as amended)

Yea: 20. Nay: 4 Abstain: _—s—sNNoot Voting: __s«sExcused: _ 1
Adamson Y J. Evans Y Mascari Y
Annee N Graves Y McCormick Y
Bain Y Gray Y Mowe N
Barth Y Hart Y Oliver Y
Boots Y Jackson Y Osili Y
Brown Y Jones Y Potts Y
Carlino Y Larrison Y Ray Exc
Dilk N Lewis Y Robinson Y
E. Evans N
