=== 85-2023 proposal document, page 1 of 3 (OCR) ===
CITY-COUNTY GENERAL ORDINANCE NO. 22, 2023
Proposal No. 85, 2023

PROPOSAL FOR A GENERAL ORDINANCE to amend the Revised Code to make various changes to
Chapter 621, Parking, standing and stopping restricted.

BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA:

SECTION 1. That the Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County, Indianapolis/Marion County,
Indiana, specifically Sec. 621-108 (e), Manner of Parking, be, and the same is hereby amended by the
addition of the following, to wit:

Vermont Street, on the south side, from Meridian Street fo Pennsylvania Street;
SECTION 2. That the Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County, Indianapolis/Marion County,
Indiana, specifically Sec. 621-122, Stopping, standing or parking prohibited at all times on certain
designated streets, be, and the same is hereby amended by the deletion of the following, to wit:

East Street, on the east side, from a point 410 feet south of Pearl Street to Ohio Street;

lilinois Street, on the west side, from McCarty Street to Louisiana Street;

illinois Street, on the east side, from Louisiana Street to Jackson Place, North Drive;

Illinois Street, on the east side, from a point 86 feet south of South Street to a point 173 feet
north of South Street;

Iinois Street, on the east side, from a point 86 feet south of South Street to South Street;
Illinois Street, on the east side, from a point 218-feet north of Henry Street to South Street;

Meridian Street, on the west side, from South Street to Washington Street;

Ohio Street, on the north side, from Delaware Street to Illinois Street;

Ohio Street, on the south side, from ois Street to Meridian Street;
Pennsylvania Street, on the east side, from Conseco Court to Madison Avenue;
Pennsylvania Street, on the east side, from South Street to Madison Avenue;
Washington Street, on the north side, from Pennsylvania Street to Illinois Street;
SECTION 3. That the Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County, Indianapolis/Marion County,
Indiana, specifically Sec. 621-122, Stopping, standing or parking prohibited at all times on certain
designated streets, be, and the same is hereby amended by the addition of the following, to wit:
East Street, on the east side, from a point 410 feet south of Pearl Street to Washington Street;
East Street, on the east side, from Market Street to New York Street;
filinois Street, on the east side, from a point 218 feet north of Henry Street to Jackson Place;
Iilinois Street, on the west side, from McCarty Street to Georgia Street;

Maryland Street, on the south side, from Pennsylvania Street to Delaware Street;

Meridian Street, on the west side, from South Street to Jackson Place;

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2023

=== 85-2023 proposal document, page 2 of 3 (OCR) ===
G.O. No. 22, 2023
Page 2

Ohio Street, on the north side, from Delaware Street to Meridian Street;
Pennsylvania Street, on the east side, from Maryland Street to Madison Avenue;

SECTION 4. Pursuant to Rev. Code Sec. 621-201 (a), four parking meter zones are established in the
city of Indianapolis, designated as Parking Meter Zone 1, Parking Meter Zone 2, Parking Meter Zone 3
and Parking Meter Zone 4. Pursuant to Rev. Code Sec. 621-201 (b) parking meters may be installed in
Parking Meter Zone 3 only if the City-County Council approves the installation.

SECTION 5. The Council hereby approves the installation of parking meters on the following streets,
portions of streets and public rights-of-way in Parking Meter Zone 3:

St. Clair Street, on the south side, from Park Avenue (south leg) to College Avenue

SECTION 6. That the Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County, Indianapolis/Marion County,
Indiana, specifically Sec. 621-402 (c), Bus stop and trolley stop zones, be, and the same is hereby
amended by the deletion of the following, to wit:

Delaware Street, on the east side, from Market Street to point 120 feet north of Market Street;

Delaware Street, on the east side, from a point one hundred seventy-five (175) feet south of
Michigan Street to Michigan Street;

SECTION 7. That the Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County, Indianapolis/Marion County,
indiana, specifically Sec. 621-402 (c), Bus stop and trolley stop zones, be, and the same is hereby
amended by the addition of the following, to wit:

Alabama Street, on the west side, from a point 167’ north of New York Street to New York
Street; :

Alabama Street, on the west side, from a point +85’ south of North Street to North Street;

Vermont Street, on the north side, from a point 80’ west of Muskingum Street to Muskingum
Street;

Vermont Street, on the south side, from a point 100’ east of Capital Avenue to Capital Avenue;

SECTION 8. The expressed or implied repeal or amendment by this ordinance of any other ordinance or part
of any other ordinance does not affect any rights or | ies accrued, penalties incurred, or proceedings begun
prior to the effective date of this ordinance. Those rights, liabilities, and proceedings are continued, and
penalties shall be imposed and enforced under the repealed or amended ordinance as if this ordinance had
not been adopted.

SECTION 9. Should any provision (section, paragraph, sentence, clause, or any other portion) of this
ordinance be declared by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, the remaini isi
or provisions shall not be affected, if and only if such remaining provisions can, without the invalid provision or
provisions, be given the effect intended by the Council in adopting this ordinance. To this end the provisions
of this ordinance are severable.

SECTION 10. This ordinance shall be in effect from and after its passage by the Council and compliance with
Ind. Code § 36-3-4-14.

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2023

=== 85-2023 proposal document, page 3 of 3 (OCR) ===
G.O. No. 22, 2023
Page 3

The foregoing was passed by the City-County Council this 3 day of April, 2023, at 7:37 p.m.

ATTEST:

Vop Osili

Presid ity-County Council

Yulonda Winfield
Clerk, City-County Council

Presented by me to the Mayor this 4°" day of April, 2023

Yulonda Winfield
Clerk, City-County Council

[i

Approved and signed by me this day of April, 2023.

ph a set gsett, Mayor

STATE OF INDIANA, MARION COUNTY)
) ss:
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS )

|, Yulonda Winfield, Clerk of the City-County Council, Indianapolis, Marion County, Indiana, do hereby certify
the above and foregoing is a full, true, and complete copy of Proposal No. 85, 2023; a Proposal for a
GENERAL ORDINANCE passed by the City-County Council on the 3" day of April, 2023, by a vote of 24
YEAS and IAYS, and was retitled General Ordinance No. 22, 2023, which was signed by the Mayor on
the f th day of April, 2023, and now remains on file and on record in my office.

fa

WITNESS my hand and the official seal of the City of Indianapolis, Indiana, this le YZ LY —day of April, 2023.

Yulonda Winfield
Clerk, City-County Council

(SEAL)

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2023
