[Page 1 of 3]
CITY-COUNTY SPECIAL RESOLUTION NO. 9, 2022
Proposal No. 105, 2022

A SPECIAL RESOLUTION recognizing the life and legacy of Maurice Young in bringing hope to the homeless.

WHEREAS, in 2021, sporting dreadiocks, a beard and modest clothing, the once stylishly dressed homecoming king and EGD dance team member, Maurice Young, might not have been recognizable to any of his former 1986 classmates at Northwest High School, but he was affectionately well-known on the streets as the “Mayor of Irish Hill,” a homeless encampment just south of downtown Indianapolis; and

WHEREAS, for Young, his most transformative years seemed to come after 2011, when he “reset” his life’s path and became “actively homeless,” checking into a homeless shelter and dedicating the rest of his days to advocating for the homeless population of Indianapolis; and

WHEREAS, Irish Hill is just one of the many homeless encampments throughout the city, and Mr Young worked diligently to see that needs were met and resources were provided to those living in these camps;
including calling meal providers and other charitable organizations to schedule outreach visits, setting up a rary and learning center, planning cookouts and block parties and a community table where camp residents who missed a meal could find something to eat; as well as setting up semi-regular office hours at libraries to help homeless individuals register online for healthcare or other services: and

WHEREAS, Maurice Young did not just “talk the talk,” but he “walked the walk,” living amongst his brothers and sisters and fighting for their Constitutional rights, even being arrested in 2013 for refusing to leave the encampment when it was being shut down, and being named as a plaintiff in a class-action rights violation suit filed in 2017 by the ACLU of Indiana, after street sweeps removed the homeless from under overpasses and bridges; and

WHEREAS, Young often spoke up when traditional social services and the “system” were not meeting the needs of his homeless neighbors, starting conversations about how the city and service providers could serve them better. He was featured in two separate award-winning documentaries: a short 12-minute film called “The Advocate,” focusing on Young’s conscious decision to become homeless; and a full-length film documenting the experience of those living at the Davidson Street camp called “Under the Bridge: The
Criminalization of Homelessness;” and

WHEREAS, helping and championing others, no matter their situation, was a way of life for Mr. Young, because he believed everybody deserved a chance. He was asked by an adjunct professor for several years to speak to students at IUPUI in classes focusing on social work, helping them with tutoring, group projects, and even a mini-internship. At a 2015 TEDx talk in indianapolis explaining what motivated him to serve the homeless community, Mr. Young quoted writer Mark Twain: “The two most important days of your life are the day you were born, and the day you know why;” and

WHEREAS, sadly, at only 53 years of age, Maurice Young passed quietly from this life on January 31, 2022 at the Wheeler Mission men’s shelter. His family and friends hope that Maurice’s life will cail people to action in serving all members of their community; now, therefore:

BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA:

SECTION 1. The Indianapolis City-County Council proudly recognizes the life and legacy of Maurice Young in bringing hope to the homeless.

SECTION 2. The Council further encourages a
champion those who need a helping hand.

dividuals to find ways to serve their community and
SECTION 3. The Mayor is invited to join in this resolution by affixing his signature hereto.

SECTION 4. This resolution shall be in full force and effect upon adoption and compliance with {C 36-3-4- 14,

SPECIAL RESOLUTION RECORD 2022

[Page 2 of 3]
S.R. No. 9, 2022
Page 2

The foregoing was passed by the City-County Council this 7" day of March, 2022, at 7:29 p.m.

ATTEST:

Vop Osili

Presid ity-County Council

SaRita Hughes
Clerk, City-County Council

Presented by me to the Mayor this 8" day of March, 2022.

aa A
SaRita Hughes a
Clerk, City-County Council

hn
Approved and signed by me this [4 day of March, 2022.
Joseph H. Hogsett, Mayor

STATE OF INDIANA, MARION COUNTY)
) Ss:
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS )

|, SaRita Hughes, Clerk of the City-County Council, Indianapolis, Marion County, Indiana, do hereby certify the above and foregoing is a full, true, and complete copy of Proposal No. 105, 2022, a Proposal for a
SPECIAL RESOLUTION passed by the City-County Council on the 7" day of March, 2022, by a unanimous voice Ye. and was retitled Special Resolution No. 9, 2022, which was signed by the Mayor on the

WITNESS my hand and the official seal of the City of indianapolis, Indiana, this /Hbsay of March, 2022.

#

SaRita Hughes
Clerk, City-County Council
(SEAL)

SPECIAL RESOLUTION RECORD 2022

[Page 3 of 3]
Indianapolis City - County Council RCS# 504
2020-2023
2020-2023

3/7/2022 7:29 PM

Proposal: PROP22- 105 Ordinance: S.R. 9 (PASSED)
Sponsor: Jones, Evans,Graves,Larrison,Boots,Carlino,Evans,Ha
Action: Adopt
Committee: Whole

- VOTED BY UNANIMOUS CONSENT -

Yea: 24 Nay: 0 Abstain: 0 Not Voting: 0 Excused: 1
Yea - 24
Adamson Dilk Jackson Mowery
Annee Evans-E Jones Oliver
Bain Evans-J Larrison Osili
Barth Graves Lewis Potts
Boots Gray Mascari Ray
Brown Hart McCormick Robinson
Nay - 0
Abstain - 0
Excused - 1
Carlino

Excused - 0
