[Page 1 of 4]
CITY-COUNTY GENERAL ORDINANCE NO. 3, 2021
Proposal No. 11, 2021

A PROPOSAL FOR A GENERAL ORDINANCE amending Chapter 226, Article V of the Code regarding the
Division of Animal Care and Control.

BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA:

SECTION 1. Section 226-512 of the "Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County” hereby is amended by deleting the language that is stricken-through and adding the language that is underlined to read as follows:

Sec. 226-512. - Shelter operations; purpose and responsibilities.
The animal care services division shall operate or contract for the operation of the facility located at 2600 South Harding Street which shall be known as the “animal care services shelter.”

(a) The animal care services shelter is to accept every Marion County resident's animal brought to it.
The animal care services shelter may require an appointment to surrender an animal. The animal care services shelter shall determine the county of residence for the owner of each animal brought to it. All non-Marion County residents shall be assessed a surrender fee established by the board of business and neighborhood services not to exceed of forty one hundred dollars $40.00} ($100.00) per animal drop off. The shelter may refuse to accept non-Marion County residents’ animals if the fee is not paid or if the shelter is at or above 80% capacity. The division shall use the income from the non-resident fee to promote spay and neuter programs.

(b) The division shall maintain a clean, comfortable, safe and healthy environment for the animals at the shelter.

(c) The division shall adopt, subject to the approval of the animal services advisory board, written standards and written standard operating procedures to ensure that the sheller is as clean, comfortable, safe and as healthy an environment as is reasonably possible.

(d) The shelter shall be open for redemption and adoption of animals a minimum of six (6) partial or whole days a week, including one (1) full weekend day.

(e) The shelter shall be open to the public until at least 7:00 p.m. a minimum of one (1) week night each week.

(| The shelter shall make arrangements to receive and assist sick or injured animals twenty-four (24) hours a day.

(g) The shelter shall coordinate with enforcement officers to make arrangements for emergency pickup service for animals.

(h) The shelter shall contract or arrange for licensed regular veterinary care and for the appropriate veterinary medical supplies for the animals at the facility, which veterinary care shall include, but not be limited to: treatment of sick and injured animals, care for newborn or young animals, administration of preventative vaccines and worming.

(i) The shelter shall provide adequate and nutritional food appropriate to the species and circumstances of the individual animal. Animais will be fed in appropriate containers.

() The shelter shall assure that the kennels and/or cages in which the animals stay at the shelter are cleaned and disinfected regularly and in no case less than once every twenty-four (24) hours.
Animals shall be humanely moved from their individual kennel to a clean area while the cleaning and disinfecting are being performed.

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2021

[Page 2 of 4]
G.O. No. 3, 2021
Page 2

(k) Incoming animais shall be received in an area separate from the rest of the shelter population and shall be immediately examined for injury. They shall remain separated from the rest of the shelter population until they have been evaluated for health and temperament. Incoming animals whose vaccination history is unknown shall be vaccinated before being moved into the shelter population.

(1) Cages and kennels shall be in good condition, free of sharp or broken edges, covered drains, supplied with clean, fresh bedding daily. Every animal shall be kept in an appropriate enclosure so as to remain clean, dry, comfortable and free of disease.

(m) Animals in the shelter shall be separated as follows:

(1) Incoming animals from the shelter population for triage and observation period;

(2) Sick and injured animals from healthy animals so as to receive appropriate care, including off-site facility care if needed;

(3) Puppies, kittens and nursing mothers with offspring from all other adult animals;

(4) Further divisions as needed to accommodate temperament and behavior including, but not limited to, females in heat and overly aggressive animals; and

(5) Dogs from cats.

SECTION 2. The expressed or implied repeal or amendment by this ordinance of any other ordinance or part of any other ordinance does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this ordinance. Those rights, liabilities, and proceedings are continued, and penalties shall be imposed and enforced under the repealed or amended ordinance as if this ordinance had not been adopted.

SECTION 3. Should any provision (section, paragraph, sentence, clause, or any other portion) of this ordinance be declared by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, the remaining provision or provisions shall not be affected, if and only if such remaining provisions can, without the invalid provision or provisions, be given the effect intended by the Council in adopting this ordinance. To this end the provisions of this ordinance are severable.

SECTION 4. This ordinance shail be in effect from and after its passage by the Council and compliance with
Ind. Code § 36-34-14.

The foregoing was passed by the City-County Council this 1% day of February, 2021, at 9:14 p.m.

ATTEST:

Ed AE [ chug hs Presidefit, City-County Council

SaRita Hughes
Clerk, City-County Council

Presented by me to the Mayor this 2"4 day of February, 2021.
SaRita Hughes ~
Clerk, City-County Council

Approved and signed by me this Gb. day of February, 2021.
c O sept ail oll:

Jose: . Hoggett, Mayor

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2021

[Page 3 of 4]
G.O. No, 3, 2021
Page 3

STATE OF INDIANA, MARION COUNTY)
) Ss:
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS )

|, SaRita Hughes, Clerk of the City-County Council, Indianapolis, Marion County, Indiana, do hereby certify the above and foregoing is a full, true, and complete copy of Proposal No. 11, 2021, a Proposal for a
GENERAL ORDINANCE passed by the City-County Council on the 1 day of February, 2021, by a vote of 24 ae ie 0 NAYS, and was retitled General Ordinance No. 3, 2021, which was signed by the Mayor on the day of February, 2021, and now remains on file and on record in my office.

WITNESS my hand and the official seal of the City of Indianapolis, Indiana, this He tay of February, 2021.

SaRita Hughes
Clerk, City-County Council

(SEAL)

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2021

[Page 4 of 4]
INDIANAPOLIS-MARION COUNTY CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL
(Via Webex)

Date: February 1, 2021

Time: 9:14 p.m.
PROPOSAL NO:_PROP21-011_ ORDINANCE NO: (G.0.)3
SPONSOR: _ Larrison, Potts
ACTION: ADOPT.

Yea: 24. Nay: 0 ~Abstain: _—s«sNot Voting: __=sss«sEExcused: 24
Adamson Y J. Evans Y Mascari Y
Annee Y Graves Exc McCormick Y
Bain Y Gray Y Mowe! Y
Barth Y Hart Y Oliver Y
Boots Y Jackson Y Osili Y
Brown Y Jones Y Potts Y
Carlino Y Larrison Y Ray Y
Dilk Y Lewis Y Robinson Y
E. Evans Y
