[Page 1 of 3]
CITY-COUNTY GENERAL ORDINANCE NO. 17, 2022
Proposal No. 130, 2022

PROPOSAL FOR A GENERAL ORDINANCE to amend Chapter 741 of the Consolidated Zoning and
Subdivision Control Ordinance of Indianapolis/Marion County, Indiana, concerning stormwater management.

WHEREAS, the City of Indianapolis is the permittee of a Municipal Separate Storm. Sewer System (MS4)
National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) Individual Permit, Permit Number INS040001, issued by the Indiana Department of Environmental Management (IDEM) with oversight by the United States
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA); and

WHEREAS, in 2016, the EPA undertook an audit of the City’s program to comply with its MS4 NPDES
Permit, which resulted in certain findings by the EPA of corrections and improvements that needed to be made for permit compliance; and

WHEREAS, on September 12, 2017, the City and the EPA entered an Administrative Order on Consent (AOC) pursuant to which the City agreed to implement certain changes to its MS4 NPDES Permit compliance program; and

WHEREAS, in addition, certain excluded cities have withdrawn from the Marion County Stormwater
Management District in recent years; and

WHEREAS, therefore, certain revisions to the Consolidated Zoning and Subdivision Control Ordinance are required to update the City’s stormwater management ordinances;

BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA:

SECTION 1. Section 741-311 of the Consolidated Zoning and Subdivision Control Ordinance of
Indianapolis/Marion County, Indiana is hereby amended by adding the language that is underlined and deleting the language that is stricken-through, to read as follows:

Sec. 741-311. - Stormwater.

A. Stormwater drainage facilities are to be designed and constructed to meet the stormwater quality and quantity standards established in the Sstormwater Sspecifications Mmanual. The drainage.facilities in the excluded cities of Beech Grove, Lawrence, Speedway; and Southport are to be designed and constructed to meet the standards established for each of these jurisdictions.

C. For projects where low impact development (LID) techniques are technically infeasible to meet stormwater quantity standards, the applicant shall provide a justification demonstrating why the use of LID techniques is not possible. Documentation of technical infeasibility shall include engineering calculations, geologic reports, hydrologic analyses, and site maps. In such case, LID stormwater management techniques shall still be used to meet water quality standards.

D. All BMPs must be located within an easement. The easement must include access to the BMP for maintenance. The purpose of each easement shall be specified in the maintenance agreement. A copy of the easement should be included in the BMP operations and maintenance manual required by the
Sstormwater Sspecifications Mmanual.

F. The responsibility of inspection and maintenance of stormwater facilities is the responsibility of the owner ‘shal ‘be-as set forth byprovided for_in in Ssections 561 214 and 561-252. of the. Revised Code,
. Maintenance
access shall be provided ‘to stormwater “facityfaci ties asset forth to assure = continuous operational capacity of the stormwater facility- ~ Specific
guidelines for i inspections. and maintenance can be found in the Sstormwater Sspecifications Mmanual

2 and in the operations
and maintenance manuals for the fa y as provided for | in section 361-234 of the Revised Code.

G. Erosion control provisions shall be provided in accordance with Chapter 561 of the Revised Code

of the Consolidated City and County and Ghapter-600-Eresion and Sediment Control-of-the Sstormwater

Sspecifications Mmanual
GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2022

[Page 2 of 3]
G.O. No. 17, 2022
Page 2

SECTION 2. Section 741-705 of the of the Consolidated Zoning and Subdivision Control Ordinance of
Indianapolis/Marion County, Indiana is hereby amended by adding the language that is underlined and deleting the language that is stricken-through, to read as follows:

Sec. 741-705. - Stormwater best management practices covenant.

"This subdivision has been designed to include stormwater quality and/or quantity stormwater fa best management-practices {SMPs} that must be inspected and maintained by the owner. An Operations and Maintenance Manual is available for the BMPsstormwater facilities. Upon activation of the homeowner's association, it shall be the responsibility in perpetuity of the homeowner's association and the individual owners of any lot or parce! of land within the area of this plat, jointly and separately, to comply with the Operations and Maintenance Manual, fees and inspection and maintenance requirements."

SECTION 3. This ordinance shail be in full force and effect upon adoption and compliance with IC 36-3-4-14.

The foregoing was passed by the City-County Council this 2"4 day of May, 2022, at 8:36 p.m.

a

ATTEST:

N

ity-County Council

SaRita Hughes
Clerk, City-County Council

Presented by me to the Mayor this 4"" day of May, 2022.

SaRita Hughes —
Clerk, City-County Council

Approved and signed by me this qué day of May, 2022.

eph H. Mogsett, Mayor

STATE OF INDIANA, MARION COUNTY )
) SS:
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS }

|, SaRita Hughes, Clerk of the City-County Council, Indianapolis, Marion County, Indiana, do hereby certify the above and foregoing is a full, true, and complete copy of Proposal No. 130, 2022, a Proposal for a
GENERAL ORDINANCE passed by the City-County Council on the 2" day of May, 2022, by a vote of 25
YEAS a 9 NAYS, and was retitled General Ordinance No. 17, 2022, which was signed by the Mayor on the Hl day of May, 2022, and now remains on file and on record in my office.

WITNESS my hand and the official seal of the City of Indianapolis, Indiana, this pth day of May, 2022.

SRA Crap had.
SaRita Hughes
(SEAL) Clerk, City-County Council

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2022

[Page 3 of 3]
Indianapolis City - County Council RCS# 633

2020-2023
2020-2023
5/2/2022 8:36 PM
Proposal: PROP22- 130 Ordinance: G.O. 17 (PASSED)
Sponsor: Adamson
Action: Adopt
Committee: Metro. and Econ. Dev.
Yea: 25 Nay: 0 Abstain: 0 Not Voting: 0 Excused: 0
Yea - 25
Adamson Dilk Jackson Mowery
Annee Evans-E Jones Oliver
Bain Evans-J Larrison Osili
Barth Graves Lewis Potts
Boots Gray Mascari Ray
Brown Hart McCormick Robinson
Carlino
Nay - 0
Abstain - 0
Not Voting - 0

Excused - 0
