[Page 1 of 9]
CITY-COUNTY GENERAL ORDINANCE NO. 43, 2026
Proposal No. 162, 2026

PROPOSAL FOR A GENERAL ORDINANCE to modify several ordinances related to the human resources division, employee compensation, and leave for city and county employees.

WHEREAS, the city controller desires the discretion to determine each year if a cost-of-living increase in salary for city and county employees will apply to increase the ranges in the salary classification schedule submitted to the city-county council with each annual budget; and

WHEREAS, the city controller desires to clarify the role of the human resources division of the office of finance and management in employee compensation matters; and

WHEREAS, the city controller desires to offer city and county employees the opportunity to donate their benefit leave to a pool for the use of other employees who experience serious health conditions for themselves or require leave to care for the serious health conditions of their spouses, children, or parents and who have exhausted all paid leave available to them; and

WHEREAS, the city controller desires to expand the availability of short-term leave to employees for their use when they or their spouses, children, or parents have serious health conditions and to allow use of short-term leave in less than full-day increments; and

WHEREAS, the city controller desires to direct employees to decline compensation for serving as a juror or nonpaid witness in any court action where the employee is already provided judicial leave compensation for that same service: now, therefore:

BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA:

SECTION 1. Sections 192-302 and 192-304 of the Revised Code of the Consolidated City of Indianapolis and Marion County are hereby amended by deleting the language that is stricken-through and adding the language that is underlined, to read as follows:

Sec. 192-302. -- Annual budget.

(a) For the calendar year 2003 budgets and thereafter, for each item appropriating funds for payment for “personal services", the item shall specify the total appropriation, including fringe benefits, the number of employees authorized expressed in terms of full time equivalents, and the "salary classification schedule" under which the compensation of each employee shali be determined.

(b) In preparing the annual budget, the controller may-shall include compensation increases consistent with a positive cost of living adjustment (COLA) formula as-set-eut-in-section 492-304, for those employees not covered by a collective bargaining agreement. The. COLA formula-will be calculated by-taking the percentage’ change in the Consumer: Price Index for urban wage earners-and clerical workérs ‘fromthe second quarter.average. of the previous year to ‘the second. quarter:average for'the current year witha maximum COLA of three (3) percent per year. The controller. is authorized to waive or reduce this annual adjustment only if annual. revenue projections reduce year-over-year, if applying the adjustment would result ina decrease in the salary classification schedules, or if otheriextenuating circumstances apply. If an annual COLA is waived for any of these-reasons, the next.calendar year shallinclude the ‘adjustment from ‘both the waived year andthe regularly calculated year,up to the maximum permitted COLA ‘of three (3) percent per year: If. application of the COLA formula would fesultin-a: négative adjustment.in a given year, the negative COLA that would have applied ‘in-that year.May be wholly or partially deducted in the following year from the adjustment that would otherwise be dictated by that following year's COLA formula.

Sec. 192-304. Modification of salary classification schedule.

(a) The salary classification schedule may be modified by adoption of a fiscal ordinance and such change may be included in an ordinance making additional appropriations.

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2026

[Page 2 of 9]
(c)

G.O. No. 43, 2026
Page 2

on the “adi ment-ih ould-octhenvise-be—di edb b ollowing-ye OLA-form

Controller has: the discretion to determine jf ‘the ‘cost of living adjustment: (COLA) described:in Sec.
192-302(b) will adjust the ranges set in-the salary classification schedule.

The controller may authorize payment of additional premium pays consistent with measures of productivity or reward as the controller believes is necessary to recruit and retain staff. The controller shall authorize such payments in accordance witha written policy which shall describe the circumstances pursuant to which any premium pays will be paid. The controller's written policy shall be filed with the city-county council's administration and finance committee within thirty (30) days after it is issued and thereafter within thirty (30) days of any changes to the policy. No premium pays authorized in accordance with this subsection shall be included in the employee's salary for budgetary purposes as specified in section 192-202(3) and section 192-203(3).

SECTION 2. Section 202-207 of the Revised Code of the Consolidated City of Indianapolis and Marion
County is hereby amended by deleting the language that is stricken-through and adding the language that is underlined, to read as follows:

Sec. 202-207. -- Human resources division

(a)

The office of finance and management shall include a human resources division with the power and duty to:

(1) Promulgate and codify personnel policies and procedures provided such actions are not in conflict with any federal, state or local laws;

(2) Recommend the hiring, promotion, transfer, layoff and dismissal of any city or county employee, i iews,-with final decision making authority resting in the affected city department or county agency;

(3) Fulfill the duties of wage and salary administrator;

(4) Recruit, advertise and post a list of all available city and county positions unless otherwise exempt from posting as determined by the administrator of human services resources;

(5) Approve the creation of all new positions by city department directors and county officials, including the reclassification of any existing position;

(6) Promuigate and enforce a uniform system of job descriptions, job classifications,-and salary fange classification schedules,:and compensation salary offers for the city and county in conjunction with affected city department directors and county officials;

(7) Screen all applicants for employment whose applications are received by the human resources division and determine whether the applicant meets the minimal qualifications for a city or county position as provided in the job description;

(8) Exclusively refer qualified applicants for interview by the specific city department or county office, except as to those positions designated as either confidential or policy making, as defined by legal standards, by the relevant appointing authority (city, county elected official or coun conjunction with the human resources division;

(9) Conduct, as required, criminal background checks on applicants for employment;

(10) Issue written offers of employment and letters of rejection to applicants for employment with the city and county in conformity with the guidance provided by the relevant city department or county « office;

(11) Prepare and maintain the master personnel file for each city and county employee;

(12) Develop and administer tests to be used for interviewing and placement purposes;

(13) Prepare the wage control for all city and county employees;

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2026

[Page 3 of 9]
(b)

(14)
(15)

(16)
(17)

(18)
(19)

(20)
(21)

G.O. No. 43, 2026
Page 3

Develop and administer all personnel and management training programs for the city departments and county offices;

Represent the city and county in all unemployment compensation and workers’ compensation proceedings and coordinate the handling of claims processing in these areas;

Participate and assist in labor negotiations with any city or county bargaining representative;
Develop, administer and coordinate a comprehensive safety program for the city and county including completion of any reports necessary for governmental compliance;

identify any safety violation in accordance with federal, state or local laws which exists in any city department or county office and determine and enforce applicable safety standards,

Administer fringe benefits for city and county officers and employees;

Perform any and all other duties related to personnel management and administration; and
Exercise any other powers which may be granted by statute or ordinance or delegated by the mayor.

With the exception of the duties of the human resources division described in subparts (a)(3), (5), (8),

(13),

(16) and (19), the city-county council, sheriffs department, circuit court, superior court, and

prosecutor may perform the foregoing human resources functions with their own staffs. The human resources division shall offer assistance to those offices as requested.

SECTION 3. Section 291-203 of the Revised Code of the Consolidated City of Indianapolis and Marion
County is hereby amended by deleting the language that is stricken-through and adding the language that is underlined, to read as follows

Sec. 291-203. -- Benefit leave.

(a) Accrual schedule for city employees and applicable county offices whose employees normally are scheduled to work a forty-hour week.

(b)

(1)
(2)

(3)

(4)

(5)

‘ Employees with less than five (5) continuous years of employment shail accrue benefit leave

monthly at the rate of fourteen and sixty-six hundredths (14.66) hours per month.

Employees who have completed five (5) continuous years of employment but less than ten (10) continuous years of employment shall accrue benefit leave monthly at the rate of eighteen (18) hours per month.

Employees who have completed ten (10) years of continuous employment but less than fifteen (15) years of continuous employment shall accrue benefit leave monthly at the rate of twenty- one and thirty-three hundredths (21.33) hours per month.

Employees who have completed at least fifteen (15) years of continuous employment shall accrue benefit leave at the rate of twenty-four and sixty-six hundredths (24.66) hours per month.

Benefit leave can only accrue if the employee works, or is on a paid leave of absence, or is receiving worker's compensation (or any combination of the three (3)) for more than half of the month).

Accrual schedule for applicable county offices whose employees are normally scheduled to work a thirty-seven-and-one-half-hour week.

Employees with less than five (5) continuous years of employment shall accrue benefit leave monthly at the rate of thirteen and seventy-five hundredths (13.75) hours per month.
Employees who have completed five (5) continuous years of employment but less than ten (10) continuous years of employment shall accrue benefit leave monthly at the rate of sixteen and eight hundred seventy-five thousandths (16.875) hours per month.

Employees who have completed ten (10) continuous years of employment but less than fifteen (15) continuous years of employment shall accrue benefit leave monthly at the rate of twenty (20) hours per month.

Employees who have completed at least fifteen (15) continuous years of employment shall accrue benefit leave monthly at the rate of twenty-three and one hundred twenty-five- thousandths (23.125) hours per month.

Benefit leave can only accrue if the employee works, is on a paid leave of absence, or on worker's compensation for more than half of the month.

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2026

[Page 4 of 9]
(i)

G.O. No. 43, 2026
Page 4

Charging benefit leave. Benefit leave shall be charged at the rate the employee is scheduled to work.
Eligibility for accrual.

(1) Those employees who are starting to work on or before the fifteenth day of the month shall have their accounts credited with the appropriate benefit ieave time on the first day of the month following the month in which they were hired.

(2) Those employees who are starting to work after the fifteenth day of the month shall have their accounts credited with the appropriate benefit leave time on the first day of the second month following the month in which they were hired.

(3) Employees who have been terminatedor who have resigned from city or county employment will receive credit for benefit leave for the month they left employment only if they worked past the fifteenth day of the month.

Use of benefit leave. The final right to approve use of benefit leave shall rest with the office, department, division, bureau or commission involved in order to preserve efficiency and provide the necessary service.

Part-time employees. Part-time employees shall be entitled to benefit leave; however, leave accrual and pay for these employees shall be prorated based upon the-average-hours-werked-during-the previous-sh<(6}-months-ofemployment actual hours worked.

When benefit leave does not accrue. No benefit leave shall accrue while an employee is on any leave without pay status. No temporary/seasonal or part-time/temporary employee is eligible to accrue benefit leave or pay.

Benefit leave carryover.

(1) For city and county employees paid on a biweekly basis: Benefit leave shall be taken within the calendar year in which it is accumulated or it shall be lost. However, up to a maximum of one hundred sixty hours (160) (one hundred fifty (150) where appropriate) of benefit leave may be carried over from one (1) calendar year to the next calendar year, provided the officials retain the right to schedule such carryover at their discretion in order to maintain the efficiency of the operation involved. In addition, an employee who is required by management to work during a period which the employee had been previously scheduled to take benefit leave and who is unable due to the demands of his/her position to reschedule the benefit leave for that calendar year may be allowed, with the approval of the mayor or the appropriate elected official or agency head, to carry over an additional eighty (80) hours (seventy-five (75) where appropriate) of benefit leave, subject to such restrictions as may be imposed by the mayor or the appropriate elected official or agency head. Benefit leave in excess of the maximum carryover amount shall be added to an employee's short—term—disability short-term. leave bank, if that bank is not at maximum accrual.

(2) For city employees covered by the current master agreement between the city and the American
Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees: Benefit leave shall be taken within the calendar year in which it is accumulated or it shall be lost. However, up to a maximum of the number of hours which the employee can accrue in a calendar year may be carried over from one (1) calendar year to the next calendar year, provided the officials retain the right to schedule such carryover at their discretion in order to maintain the efficiency of the operation involved. In addition, an employee who is required by management to work during a period which the employee had been previously scheduled to take benefit leave and who is unable due to the demands of his/her position to reschedule the benefit leave for that calendar year may be allowed, with the approval of the mayor, to carry over an additional eighty (80) hours of benefit leave, subject to such restrictions as may be imposed by the mayor. Benefit leave in excess of the maximum carryover amount shall be added to an employee's short-term-disability short- term leave bank, if that bank is not at maximum accrual.

Two weeks’ notice. Two (2) weeks’ notice must be given upon voluntary resignation in order to receive payment for accrued benefit leave. The city department or county agency may waive this requirement for good cause determined in consultation with the human resources division. The maximum-payment

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2026

[Page 5 of 9]
G.O. No. 43, 2026
Page 5

for accrued benefit leave shall be

weeks in-year-2023 and every-yearthereafier.

Termination, separation prior to six (6) months of employment. Employees who are terminated or separate employment prior to the completion of six (6) months of employment will not be paid for accumulated, unused benefit leave.

six (6)

Termination for gross misconduct. Employees who are terminated for gross misconduct will not be paid for accumulated, unused benefit leave. Gross misconduct shall include:

(1) The filing of criminal charges against an employee;

(2) Working or reporting to work in a state of intoxication caused by the employee's use of alcohol or a controlied substanc

(3) Battery on another individual while on city-county property or during working hours;

(4) Theft or embezzlement,

(5) Fraud.

Employees transferred from noncity or noncounty entities. Any person who becomes an employee as a result of a transfer of the duties of his/her former employer to the city or county may, upon the approval of the appropriate official, use his/her most recent hire date with the former employer for the purpose of determining benefit leave accrual.

(m) Advance use of benefit leave. Employees of Marien-County-offices—and—agencies the ‘city “and

)

county (including Marion County courts) may not use or be paid for benefit leave hours before such hours are accrued. However, an elected official or agency head who wishes to allow employees to use benefit leave up to one (4) week in advance may request permission to do so from the human resources division: Ma d. Human resources The
beard may grant permission to the elected offi Io or. “agency head ny allow up fo one (1) week use of benefit leave under such circumstances as human ‘resources the—beard deems advisabie. Any benefit leave so advanced which remains outstanding upon an employee's termination shall be coliected or withheld from the employee's final pay.

Benefit leave donation: Effective December 15, 2026. éligible city and county employees shall have

the opportunity to donate benefit leave to.a pool to be used by other city and county employees who experience-serious health conditions for themselves. or require time to care for the serious health condition. of ‘their::spouse: children, or :~parents and have exhausted all paid jeave available ‘to them:.The human resources division is authorized to develop rules and guidance for administration of benefit leave donations,

SECTION 4. Section 291-204 of the Revised Code of the Consolidated City of Indianapolis and Marion
County is hereby amended by deleting the language that is stricken-through and adding the language that is underlined, to read as follows:

Sec. 291-204. — Short-term disability-leave.

(a

Accrual schedule for city employees and applicable county offices whose employees are normally scheduled to work a forty-hour week.

(1) Full-time employees shall accrue shortterm-disability short-term leave at the rate of ten (10) hours per month up to a maximum of four hundred (400) hours. Once the maximum accrual has been reached, employees shall not accrue shertterm-disabiity short-term leave unless shor term—disability short-term leave is used, at which time additional shon—term—disability short- term time may be accrued until the maximum accrual is reached once again.

(2) Part-time employees shall accrue sheriterm-disability short-term leave on a pro rata basis up to a maximum number of hours to be determined by ascertaining the percentage of the normal work week which the employee is scheduled to work and applying that percentage to four hundred (400) hours. shorterm-disability short-term leave shall be used on a pro rata basis based upon the number of hours scheduled in the previous six (6) months. Once the maximum accrual has been reached, employees shall not accrue shortierm-disabilily shost- term leave unless short-term-disability short-term leave is used, at which time additional short

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2026

[Page 6 of 9]
(b)

(c)

(d)

G.O. No. 43, 2026
Page 6

term-—disability short-term leave may be accrued until the maximum accrual is reached once again,
(3) Interns;Ftemporary, and seasonal employees are not eligible to accrue shet—term

disability short-term leave.

Accrual schedule for applicable county offices whose employees are normally scheduled to work a thirty-seven and one-half-hour week.

(1) Full-time employees shall accrue short-terrdisability Short-term leave at the rate of nine and three hundred seventy-five thousandths (9.375) hours per month up to a maximum accrual of three hundred seventy-five (375) hours. Once the maximum accrual has been reached, employees shall not accrue short—-term—disability short-term leave unless shorf—term disability short-term leave is used, at which time additional shortterm-disability short-term short-term leave may be accrued until the maximum accrual is reached once again.

(2) Part-time employees shall accrue shortterm-disability. short-term leave on a pro rata basis up to a maximum number of hours to be determined by ascertaining the percentage of the normal work week which the employee is scheduled to work and applying that percentage to three hundred seventy-five (375) hours. shortterm-disability short-term leave shall be used on a pro rata basis based upon the number of hours scheduled in the previous six (6) months. Once the maximum accrual has been reached, employees shail not accrue sher-term-disabilify short- term leave unless short-term-disability short-term leave is used, at which time additional short term-disability short-term leave may be accrued until the maximum accrual is reached once again.

(3) Interns;-Ftemporary, and seasonal employees are not el

term disability leave.

Eligibility to accrue. Empioyees with hire dates on or before the fifteenth day of the month will be eligible to have short-term-disability short-term leave credited to them on the first day of the following month. Employees with hire dates after the fifteenth day of the month will be eligible to have short term-disability short-term leave credited to them on the first day of the second month following the month of hire. Employees must be on paid status or on worker's compensation for more than half of the month in order to accrue shert-tern+-disability short-term’ leave for the month.

ible to accrue shert—term short-

Conditions for use.
(NOTE: This version of subsection (d) shall remain in full force.and effect through December.14, 2026.
See: the following version of this subsection, effective December 15, 2026.)

(1) Qualifying period. In order to be eligible to use accrued sher-term-disability short-term leave, a full-time employee must have an illness or injury which has caused or will cause him/her to be absent from work for more than forty (40) consecutive work hours (thirty-seven and one-half (37%) consecutive work hours for those employees who normally work a thirty-seven and one- half-hour work week). A part-time employee must have an illness or injury which has caused or will cause him/her to be absent from work for a consecutive number of hours which is equal to the number of hours he/she is scheduled to work in a one-week period. Neither full-time nor part- time employees may use shortterm-disabilify short-term, leave during this initial qualifying period.

(2) Short-term-disability Short-term. leave may be used only in day-long increments, except in the case of employees who are receiving temporary total disability benefits as a result of a work- related injury or iliness, in which case an employee may elect to supplement these benefits using short-term-disability short-term leave. In no event shall the disability-benefits-andthe shortiera disability short-term: leave benefit payments and the amount received from any employer-paid disability insurance total more than the employee's regular rate of pay.

(3) City and county offices and agencies may establish notice requirements as well as requirements for medical documentation to be provided by employees prior to the approval of use of shorter disability short-term leave.

(4) Disability Short-term leave. Once disability leave commences all benefit leave, short-term disability short-term: leave and other paid leave time shall be exhausted before beginning any unpaid portion of the leave. However, at the discretion of the employee, up to forty (40) hours (thirty-seven and one-half (37%) where applicable) of accrued sick leave as described in section 291-211 below may be reserved for later use in accordance with section 291-211 below.

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2026

[Page 7 of 9]
G.O. No. 43, 2026
Page 7

(d)-: Conditions for continuous or intermittent use.
(NOTE::This version of subsection (d)-shall take effect December 15, 2026. ‘See also the preceding version of this subsection -(d), effective through December.14, 2026:}

(1).-Qualifying-events: Short-term leave may be used ‘by-an employee-with-a serious health condition that ‘makes the employee unable:to perform the:essential functions ‘of his/her job. Short-term leave may also be used by an employee to care: for a. spouse, parent, or child who ‘is incapable of. self-care due toa serious health condition:

ing period. In order to be-eligible.to use accrued: short-term leave, ‘a full-time employee must havea qualifying: event.as described -in- subsection :(d)(4) ‘that-has. caused ‘or will cause hinv/her to.be absent from work for.a number of hours thatis equal to the number of hours he/she is ‘scheduled to. work ‘in’ a -one-week-period: Neither: fulltime -nor--part-time employees ‘may use shoft-term leave continuously or intermittently during th al qualifying period:

(3). Short-term leave may.be used:in one-hour incréments:

(4) Employees who are receiving: temporary ‘total disability: benefits as a result“of'a work-related injury: oriliness" mayuse short. term Jeave in any increment ‘to ‘supplement those: benefits:
However, ‘in ho: event shall the temporary total disability benefits; ‘any employer-paid ‘disability insurance benefits, and the short-term leave: payments ‘total-more-than ‘the employee's requiar rate.of pay:

(5). Human_resources ‘may establish notice requirements -as :well as_requirements for-medical documentation to -be provided by employees.prior tothe: approval of use of short-term leave.

(6) Once-a. leave described in subsection (d) (1) commences all short-term leave. benefit leave, and any other paid:leave time shall be exhausted before beginning any Unpaid portion of the leave.

(2)

SECTION 5. Section 291-205 of the Revised Code of the Consolidated City of Indianapolis and Marion
County is hereby amended by adding the language that is underlined, to read as follows:

Sec. 291-205. Judicial leave.

{a) Time off with pay shall be granted an employee who is summoned for jury duty_and ‘has been called: upon to participate inthe jury selection process or as a nonpaid witness in any action in any court. However, in no case shail this leave be used i judich sempensation for any proceeding in which he/she Is a party, has a monetary interest, or serves as a paid expert witness, unless the employee is the victim in a criminal proceeding. The supervisor has the right to request verification. Interns, temporary, and seasonal-seasonal-and parttime temporary employees do not receive paid time off for judicial leave.

(b) : ‘No employee who is éligible for judicial leave compensation shail accept any other compensation for'serving as a juroror witness (other than ‘mileage or meal reimbursement).

SECTION 6. The expressed or implied repeal or amendment by this ordinance of any other ordinance or part of any other ordinance does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this ordinance. Those rights, liabilities, and proceedings are continued, and penalties shall be imposed and enforced under the repealed or amended ordinance as if this ordinance had not been adopted.

SECTION 7. Should any provision (section, paragraph, sentence, clause, or any other portion) of this ordinance be declared by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, the remaining provision or provisions shall not be affected, if and only if such remaining provisions can, without the invalid provision or provisions, be given the effect intended by the Council in adopting this ordinance. To this end the provisions of this ordinance are severable.

SECTION 8. This ordinance shall be in effect from and after its passage by the Council and compliance with Ind. Code § 36-3-4-14.

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2026

[Page 8 of 9]
G.O. No. 43, 2026
Page 8

The foregoing was passed by the City-County Council this 6th day of July, 2026, at 8:39 p.m.

ATTEST:
j l , 3 ° President, City-County Council
Yulonda Winfield :

Clerk, City-County Council
Presented by me to the Mayor this 7th day of July, 2026
Yulonda Winfield é

Clerk, City-County Council
; ; St.
Approved and signed by me this ~~ day of July, 2026.

H. HogSett,

Mayor

STATE OF INDIANA, MARION COUNTY)
) SS:
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS )

{, Yulonda Winfield, Clerk of the City-County Council, Indianapolis, Marion County, Indiana, do hereby certify the above and foregoing is a full, true, and complete copy of Proposal No. 162, 2026, a Proposal for a
GENERAL ORDINANCE passed by the City-County Council on the 6th day of July, 2026, by a vote of 24
YEAS ag NAYS, and was retitled General Ordinance No. 43, 2026, which was signed by the Mayor on the day of July, 2026, and now remains on file and on record in my office.

WITNESS my hand and the official seal of the City of Indianapolis, Indiana, this Sith day of July 2026.

Yulonda Winfield ¢
Clerk, City-County Council

(SEAL)

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2026

[Page 9 of 9]
Indianapolis City - County Council RCS# 1220
2020-2023
2024-2027

7/6/2026 8:39 PM

Proposal: PROP-26 162 Ordinance: G.O. 43 (PASSED)
Sponsor: NIELSEN
Action: Adopt
Committee: Admin and Fin

Yea: 24 Nay: 0 Abstain: 0 Not Voting: 0 Excused: 1
Yea - 24
Allen Cahill Hart Nielsen
Annee Delaney Jones Osili
Bain Dilk Lewis Perkins
Barth Evans Mascari Roberts
Brown-A Gibson McCormick Robinson
Brown-J Graves Mowery Wells
Nay - 0
Abstain - 0
Excused - 1
Boots

Excused - 0
