[Page 1 of 4]
CITY-COUNTY SPECIAL ORDINANCE NO. 9, 2026
Proposal No. 167, 2026

A SPECIAL ORDINANCE approving Payments in Lieu of Taxes (“PILOTS”) as provided in indiana Code § 36-3-2-12 (the “Act”) for an affordable housing project being financed in part with low-income housing tax credits pursuant to Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.

WHEREAS, the Act authorizes the legislative body of the City of Indianapolis (the “City”) to adopt an ordinance to require a property owner to pay PILOTS at times set forth in the ordinance with respect to real property that is subject to an exemption under Indiana Code § 6-1.1-10-16.7; and

WHEREAS, Indiana Code § 6-1.1-10-16.7 provides for a property tax exemption for a project where (1) the improvements on the real property were constructed, rehabilitated, or acquired for the purpose of providing housing to income eligible persons under the federal low income housing tax credit program under 26 U.S.C. § 42; (2) the real property is subject to an extended use agreement under 26 U.S.C. § 42 as administered by the Indiana Housing and Community Development Authority; and (3) the owner of the property has entered into an agreement to make payments in lieu of taxes in accordance with the Act; and

WHEREAS, UP Hanna Commons, LP, an Indiana limited partnership, and/or one or more subsidiaries, affiliates, successors, assigns, or designees thereof, including any limited partnership or other entity formed fo own the Project (as defined herein) in connection with the syndication of low income housing tax credits (collectively, the “Owner’), has or will acquire certain real estate in Perry Township, Marion County, indiana, which consists of the parcel located at 2880 East Hannah Avenue, Indianapolis, Indiana, and identified as
Marion County Parcel Number 5012538 (the “Real Estate”), and upon which Owner desires to develop an approximately forty (40) unit affordabie housing facility for low income residents to be known as Hanna
Commons Phase II (collectively with the Real Estate, the Project”), which Owner has represented will be owned and operated as an affordable housing facility pursuant to the federal low income housing tax credit program under 26 U.S.C. § 42 with an extended use agreement requiring the Project to remain affordable for a period of at least thirty (30) years after completion of construction; and

WHEREAS, the City and Owner desire to approve the PILOTS to facilitate the Project and provide additional affordable housing in the City; and

WHEREAS, the terms and conditions of the PILOTS shall be contained in the PILOT Agreement, a form of which is attached hereto as Exhibit A (the “PILOT Agreement’), which shall include without limitation, (i) aterm not to exceed fifteen (15) years (the “Term’); (ii) annual PILOT Payments (the “PILOT Payments’) to be determined by the City’s Department of Metropolitan Development (“DMD”) at the time the PILOT
Agreement is executed, based upon the estimated amount of property taxes that would be payable for the applicable tax year on the assessed value of the Project during the Term if the Project were not exempt from property taxation (the “Estimated Full Tax Lability”); provided, however, that the resulting annual property tax savings attributable to the PILOT Payments shall not exceed ninety percent (90%) of the
Estimated Full Tax Lability for the applicable tax year as estimated by DMD at the time the PILOT
Agreement is executed (the “Maximum PILOT Savings’), and the PILOT Payments shall increase annually by three percent (3%) during the Term of the PILOT Agreement; and

WHEREAS, the City recognizes and agrees that in accordance with Indiana Code § 36-3-2-12(f}(2), the percentage generated by dividing the annual PILOT Payment by the amount of the property taxes that would have been paid to the City if the Project was not subject to an exemption from property taxation shall be the percentage of the property taxes required to be paid by the Owner to the City on an annual basis during the Term of the PILOT Agreement; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to and in accordance with the Act, the City desires to authorize and enter into the
PILOT Agreement, now, therefore:

BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA:

SPECIAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2026

[Page 2 of 4]
S.0. No. 9, 2026
Page 2

SECTION 1. The forgoing recitals are fully incorporated herein by this reference.

SECTION 2. It is hereby found that the construction of the Project be of benefit to the health or general welfare of the City and its citizens and does comply with the purposes and provisions of the Act.

SECTION 3. The PILOT Agreement is hereby approved by the City, and the Owner shall make the annual PILOT Payments in accordance with the terms of the PILOT Agreement, which is conditioned upon, among other requirements, the Owner receiving property tax exemptions for each parcel of the Real Estate pursuant to Indiana Code § 6-1.1-10-16.7.

SECTION 4. In accordance with Indiana Code § 36-3-2-12(h), the PILOT Payments shall be deposited in the City’s housing trust fund established under Indiana Code § 36-7-15.1-35.5 and used for any purpose for which the housing trust fund may be used.

SECTION 5. In accordance with Indiana Code § 36-3-2-12(e), the Owner has consented to this
Ordinance and the PILOT Payments authorized herein, which consent shall be evidenced by the execution of the PILOT Agreement by the Owner, DMD, and the City Controller.

SECTION 6. DMD and the City Controller are authorized and directed to finalize, negotiate, and execute the PILOT Agreement approved herein, including making such changes, additions, and modifications as
DMD determines to be necessary or desirable, provided that the final terms of the PILOT Agreement shall not exceed the Term and Maximum PILOT Savings authorized by this Ordinance and shall establish annual
PILOT Payments consistent with the Estimated Full Tax Lability as determined by DMD. The signature of the authorized signatory of DMD and the City Controller on the PILOT Agreement may be facsimile signatures.

SECTION 7. By adopting this Ordinance, authorizing and directing DMD and the City Controller to finalize and execute the PILOT Agreement, and authorizing the PILOT Payments, the City has undertaken all required action contained within the Act.

SECTION 8. If any section, paragraph or provision of this Ordinance shall be held to be invalid or unenforceable for any reason, the invalidity or unenforceability of such section, paragraph or provision shall not affect any of the remaining provisions of this Ordinance.

SECTION 8. All ordinances, resolutions and orders or parts thereof, in conflict with the provisions of this
Ordinance are, to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.

SECTION 10. Itis hereby determined that all formal actions of the Council relating to the adoption of this
Ordinance were taken in one or more open meetings of the Council, that all deliberations of the Council and of its committees, if any, which resulted in formal action, were in meetings open to the public, and that ail such meetings were convened, held and conducted in compliance with applicable legal requirements, including Indiana Code 5-14-1.5 et seq., as amended.

SECTION 11. DMD and the City Controller are authorized to take all such further actions or to execute, attest and deliver such further instruments and documents in the name of the City as in DMD’s and the City
Controller’s judgment shall be necessary or advisable in order to fully consummate the PILOT Agreement and the Project and carry out the purposes of this Ordinance.

SECTION 12. This Ordinance and the authorization granted herein shall automatically terminate and be of no further force or effect if the PILOT Agreement authorized herein is not executed by the Owner, the
City Controller, and DMD within two years following the adoption of this Ordinance (the “Execution
Deadline’), unless such Execution Deadline is extended by the City-County Council, and no rights shall vest in the Owner unless and until the PILOT Agreement is executed.

SECTION 13. Except as provided in Section 12, this Ordinance shall be in full force and effect upon

adoption and compliance with Indiana Code § 36-3-4-14 and shall automatically terminate upon the termination of the PILOT Agreement.

SPECIAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2026

[Page 3 of 4]
S.O. No. 9, 2026
Page 3

The foregoing was passed by the City-County Council this 6th day of July, 2026, at 8:52 p.m.

ATTEST:

. . President, City-County Council

A uloriae. Btayfstol

Yulonda Winfield
Clerk, City-County Council

Presented by me to the Mayor this 7th day of July, 2026

Yulonda Winfield ¢
Clerk, City-County Council

Approved and signed by me this Sth day of July, 2026.
rc 0 wat hl Hy <x

H. HogSett, Mayor

STATE OF INDIANA, MARION COUNTY)
) SS:
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS )

1, Yulonda Winfield, Clerk of the City-County Council, Indianapolis, Marion County, Indiana, do hereby certify

the above and foregoing is a full, true, and complete copy of Proposal No. 167, 2026, a Proposal for a

SPECIAL ORDINANCE passed by the City-County Council on the 6th day of July, 2026, by a vote of 24

YEAS and 0 NAYS, and was retitled Special Ordinance No. 9, 2026, which was signed by the Mayor on the
S day of July, 2026, and now remains on file and on record in my office.

WITNESS my hand and the official seal of the City of Indianapolis, Indiana, this Sh day of July 2026.

Yulonda Winfield
Clerk, City-County Council

(SEAL)

SPECIAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2026

[Page 4 of 4]
Indianapolis City - County Council RCS# 1225
2020-2023
2024-2027

7/6/2026 8:52 PM
VOTED AS PART OF

GROUP RCS #1222
Proposal: PROP-26 167 Ordinance: S.O. 9 (PASSED)
Sponsor: MASCARI
Action: Adopt
Committee: Metro. and Econ. Dev.
Yea: 24 Nay: 0 Abstain: 0 Not Voting: 0 Excused: 1
Yea - 24
Allen Cahill Hart Nielsen
Annee Delaney Jones Osili
Bain Dilk Lewis Perkins
Barth Evans Mascari Roberts
Brown-A Gibson McCormick Robinson
Brown-J Graves Mowery Wells
Nay - 0
Abstain - 0
Excused - 1
Boots

Excused - 0
