[Page 1 of 3]
CITY-COUNTY GENERAL RESOLUTION NO. 19, 2024
Proposal No. 173, 2024

A GENERAL RESOLUTION designating a portion of Capitol Avenue, from Maryland to South Street, as
Reverend Charles R. Williams Memorial Way.

WHEREAS, Charles Williams lived a life in service of others which included serving in the Navy during the Vietnam War, becoming a minister, working as a special assistant to Mayor William Hudnut, and becoming the President of the Indiana Black Expo, and

WHEREAS, Charles Williams used governmental experience to find ways to benefit African Americans in the City of indianapolis and worked to introduce small minority businesses to major corporations well before supplier diversity became popular; and

WHEREAS, Reverend Williams was instrumental in creating the first city-wide Black History Month
Celebration; and

WHEREAS, within three years of leaving the city, he went from volunteering for the Indiana Black Expo to becoming its first paid President; and

WHEREAS, since ception in 1970, the indiana Black Expo has stood as one of the best organized, most enduring, and resilient organizations of its kind in the nation; however, it gained notoriety across the nation and around the world during the 20-year presidency of the iconic Reverend Charles Williams where he grew it from a small grassroots event out at the fairgrounds to international event; and

WHEREAS, expanded Black Expo into a year-round endeavor that creates and supports programs ranging from health care to performing arts; and

WHEREAS, in addition to taking the summer celebration to new heights, in 1983, Williams was instrumental in orgai g the Circle City Classic, one of the nation’s most successful fall football events involving Historically Black Colleges and Universities; and

WHEREAS, in association with the Indiana Sports Corporation, the event is recognized as the second- largest football game pitting historically Black colleges and universities against one another

WHEREAS, throughout his life Rev. Williams showed his selflessness by extending his wisdom to many organizations including, but not limited to, indiana Sports Corporation, Downtown Promotion Council,
Indiana Convention and Visitors Association, Indiana Christian Leadership Conference, White River State
Parkway Development Commission, Greater Indianapolis Progress Committee, Black College Hall of
Fame, and the Pacers Foundation; and

WHEREAS, he continued extending himself to others by becoming a minister after attending both Martin
Center College of Religious Studies, where he received a bachelor's degree, and Christian Theological
Seminary, where he received an Honorary Doctorate of Community Service and an Honorary Doctorate of
Humane Letters; and

WHEREAS, he received many awards and recognitions throughout his life including, but not limited to, the Sagamore of the Wabash, the Distinguished Service Award presented by the National Newspaper
Publishers Association, the Living Legends in Black Award, and the Congressional Lifetime Achievement
Award; and

WHEREAS, Williams did not let a diagnosis of prostate cancer stop him from serving his community;
and

WHEREAS, since prostate cancer disproportionately affects Black men, Williams used his cancer struggle as a teaching opportunity raising awareness about the importance of being screened, by speaking about the problem, and by filming public-service spots; and

WHEREAS, Williams's vision and an undying passion for the IBE summer celebration was on his mind

even in his final days, showing that he was the living embodiment of the meaning of the words “serving mankind”, now, therefore:

GENERAL RESOLUTION RECORD 2024

[Page 2 of 3]
GR. No. 19, 2024
Page 2

BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND MARION COUNTY, INDIANA:

SECTION 1. The indianapolis City-County Council does hereby honor the memory of Charles Williams by designating that portion of Capitol Avenue, from Maryland to South Street, as the "Charles Williams
Memorial Way.”

SECTION 2. As per Revised Code Section 431-405(a) this authorization shall expire fifteen (15) years after it is passed by the City-County Council,

SECTION 3. This resolution shall be in full force and effect upon adoption and compliance with IC 36-3-4-14.

The foregoing was passed by the City-County Council this 3% day of June, 2024, at 8:09 p.m.

ATTEST: aA

Vop Osili

. . President, City-County Council

Yulonda Winfield
Clerk, City-County Councit

Presented by me to the Mayor this 4" day of June, 2024

LYulora. BArappslol

Yulonda Winfield
Clerk, City-County Council

Approved and signed by me this 4 t day of June 2024.
0S ph A/r ba kf

Joseph H. Hogsett, Mayor

STATE OF INDIANA, MARION COUNTY)
) $s:
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS )

|, Yulonda Winfield, Clerk of the City-County Council, Indianapolis, Marion County, Indiana, do hereby certify the above and foregoing is a full, true, and complete copy of Proposal No. 173, 2024, a Proposal for a
GENERAL RESOLUTION passed by the City-County Council on the 3 day of June, 2024, by a vote of 25
YEAS yy NAYS, and was retitled General Resolution No. 19, 2024, which was signed by the Mayor on the day of June, 2024, and now remains on file and on record in my office.

WITNESS my hand and the official seal of the City of Indianapolis, Indiana, this hy day of June, 2024.

Yulonda Winfield ffl
Clerk, City-County Council

(SEAL)

GENERAL RESOLUTION RECORD 2024

[Page 3 of 3]
Indianapolis City - County Council RCS# 220

2020-2023
2024-2027
6/3/2024 8:09 PM
Proposal: PROP-24 173 Ordinance: G.R. 19 (PASSED)
Sponsor: OSILI
Action: Adopt
Committee: Comm Aff
Yea: 25 Nay: 0 Abstain: 0 Not Voting: 0 Excused: 0
Yea - 25
Allen Cahill Graves Mowery
Annee Carlino Hart Nielsen
Bain Delaney Jones Osi
Barth Dilk Lewis Perkins
Boots Evans Mascari Roberts
Brown-A Gibson McCormick Robinson
Brown-J
Nay - 0
Abstain - 0
Not Voting - 0

Excused - 0
