[Page 1 of 7]
CITY-COUNTY SPECIAL ORDINANCE NO. 6, 2021
Proposal No. 177, 2021

City of indianapolis, indiana, Economic Development Tax Increment Revenue Bonds, Series 2021 (Elanco
Project) (with such further or different series designation as may be necessary, desirable or appropriate, including such series designation to indicate the year in which the bonds are issued), in a maximum aggregate principal amount not to exceed One Hundred Thirty-Five Million One Hundred Forty-Five

Thousand Dollars ($135,145,000.00), and approving and authorizing other actions in respect thereto.

WHEREAS, Indiana Code 36-7-11.9 and 12 (collectively, the “Act”) declares that the financing and refinancing of economic development facilities constitutes a public_purpose; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to the Act, the City of Indianapolis, Indiana (the “City”), is authorized to issue revenue bonds for the purpose of financing, reimbursing or refinancing the costs of acquisition, construction, renovation, installation and equipping of economic development facilities in order to foster diversification of economic development and creation or retention of opportunities for gainful employment in or near the City; and

WHEREAS, Elanco US, Inc., one or more subsidiaries or affiliates thereof, and/or one or more entities in which any of the foregoing entities controls or is controlled by, directly or indirectly, whether such entity is currently in existence or is to be created following the date hereof (collectively, the “Company’) cooperation with the City, desires to finance certain projects, additions or improvements on all or a-portion of a 91 acre tract formerly known as the “GM Stamping Plant Site” (the “Project Site”) including (a) the construction, instaflation and equipping by the Company of certain infrastructure and other improvements at the Project Site, including, without limitation: (i) roads, streets, bridges, surface parking and related infrastructure projects and improvements, (i) sidewalks and pedestrian connector projects and improvements, streetscapes, landscaping and lighting projects and imprevements; (iii) sitework, utility location or relocation, stormwater control, drainage improvements and remediation activities, (iv) below ing infrastructure including the excavation and construction of foundations, footers and al supporting structures, (v) aboveground building improvements including parking facilities, structural steel, exterior buiiding sheathing and similar “hard construction’ exterior building improvements, and (vi) improvements directly related to the foregoing; and_(b) the acquisition, planning, design, construction, inspection and equipping by the City of drainage improvements, storm water control, utilities, roads, streets, bridges, streetscapes, landscaping and any projects related to the improvements described in this clause (b) and any and all costs related thereto (clauses (a)-and (b), collectively, the “Project”); and

WHEREAS, the Project Site will be located in the City’s downtown area on the west bank of the White
River, commonly referred to as the GM Stamping. Plant which is in City-County Council District 16, and is, or will be, located in or physically connected to an allocation area, to be known as the “GM Expansion Area ll Allocation Area,” which constitutes a portion of the Consolidated Redevelopment Allocation Area (collectively the “Allocation Area”), previously created by the Metropolitan Development Commission of
Marion County, Indiana (the “Metropolitan Bevelopment Commission’), acting as the Redevelopment
Commission of the City; and

WHEREAS, the Company has advised the Indianapolis Economic Development Commission (the “Economic Development Commission”) and the City concerning the Project, and has requested that the
City issue, pursuant to the Act, one or more series of its taxable or tax-exempt Economic Development Tax
Increment Revenue Bonds, Series 2021 (Elanco Project) (with such further-or different series designation as may be necessary, desirable or appropriate, including such series designation to indicate: the year in which the bonds are issued) (the “Bonds”), in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed One Hundred
Thirty-Five Million One Hundred Forty-Five Thousand Dollars ($135,145,000.00), for the purpose of providing funds to (a) pay ail or a portion of the costs of the Project by making a portion of the proceeds of such Bonds available to the Company and a portion of the proceeds availabie to the City, (b) fund a debt service reserve fund or pay the cost of a premium for a debt service. reserve fund surety policy (if necessary), (c) pay capitalized interest on the Bonds (if necessary), and (d) pay costs incurred in connection with the issuance of the Bonds and all incidental expenses therewith, including the cost of any credit enhancement with respect thereto; and

WHEREAS, the Economic Development Commission has rendered a report concerning the proposed financing of economic development facilities for the Company, which facilities consist of the Project, and the Metropolitan Development Comm n has been given the opportunity to comment thereon, and

SPECIAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2021

[Page 2 of 7]
S.O. No. 6, 2021
Page 2

WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 24 of the Act, the Economic. Development Commission heid a public hearing, following publication of a notice duly given (the “Public Hearing”), for the purpose of receiving evidence and testimony on the Project and matters related to the proposed financing thereof and heard ail persons interested in the proceedings and considered written remonstrances and objections, if any;
and

WHEREAS, following such Public Hearing, the Economic Development Commission approved a report (the “EDC Report”) and adopted a resolution (the “EDC Resolution”) making findings that the financing of the Project complies with the purposes and provisions of the Act and that such financing will be of benefit to the health and welfare of the City, and that the Project will not have an adverse competitive effect or impact on any similar facility already constructed or operating in the same market area or in or about Marion
County, Indiana; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to and in accordance with the Act, the City desires. to provide funds necessary to finance all or-a portion of the Project by issuing the Bonds; and

WHEREAS, the Act provides.that such revenue bonds may be secured by a trust indenture between an issuer and a corporate trustee; and

WHEREAS, the City intends to issue the Bonds consistent with the terms of this Ordinance and pursuant fo one or more trust indentures, each to be dated the first day of the month in which the Bonds are sold or delivered (or such other date as the officers of the City may hereafter approve) (each, an
Indenture’), by and between the City and.a corporate trustee to be selected’by the City (the “Trustee”), in order to obtain-funds necessary to provide for the financing of all or a portion of the Project in accordance with the terms of one or more financing agreements, each to be-dated as of the first day of the month in which the Bonds are sold or delivered (or such other date as the officers of the City may hereafter approve) (each, a “Financing Agreement”), by and between the City. and the Company with respect to the Project and the use of the proceeds of the Bonds; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to the Financing Agreement; the Company will make. representations, warranties and commitments with respect to the Project and the use of the proceeds of the Bonds to be provided to the Company in accordance with the terms thereof, and

WHEREAS, no member of the City-County. Council has any-pecuniary interest in any employment,
Financing Agreement or other contract made under the provisions of the Act and related to the Bonds authorized herein, which pecuniary interest has not been fully disclosed tothe City-County Council and no such member has voted-on any such matter, all in accordance with the provisions of Indiana Code §36- 7-12-16; and

WHEREAS, there has been submitted to the Economic. Development Commission for its approval the forms of the Bonds, the Indenture and the Financing Agreement (collectively, the “Financing Documents’), and a form of this proposed Ordinance (the “Ordinance”) authorizing. the Bonds and the form of Financing
Documents, which are by this reference incorporated herein; and

WHEREAS, the City expects to pay for certain costs of the Bonds or costs related to the Project (collectively, the “Expenditures”) prior to the issuance of the Bonds, and to reimburse the Expenditures with proceeds received by the City upon the issuance of the Bonds; and

WHEREAS, the City-County Council desires to declare its intent to reimburse the Expenditures pursuant to Treas. Reg. §1.150-2 and Indiana Code §5-1-14-6(c); and

WHEREAS, based upon the EDC Report and the EDC Resolution, the City-County Council hereby finds and determines that the funding approved by the Economic Development Commission for all or a portion of the Project will be of benefit to the health and general welfare of the citizens of the City, complies with the provisions of the Act and the amount necessary to finance all or a portion of the costs ofthe Project, together with incidental expenses incurred in connection therewith, require the issuance, sale and delivery of one or more series of economic development tax increment revenue bonds in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed One Hundred Thirty-Five Million One Hundred Forty-Five Thousand Dollars ($135,145,000.00); and

SPECIAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2021

[Page 3 of 7]
S.0. No. 6, 2021
Page 3

WHEREAS, the Bonds will be payable from the incremental real and/or personal-property tax revenues derived from the Allocation Area; now, therefore:

BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA:

SECTION 14. After considering the evidence presented in the EDC Report and the EDC Resolution, it is hereby found, determined, ratified and confirmed that the financing of the economic development facilities referred to in the Financing Documents consisting of the Project, the-issuance and sale of the Bonds, and the use of the net proceeds thereof by the Company and/or the City to finance all or a portion of the Project, will: (i) result in the diversification of industry, the creation or retention of business opportunities and the creation or retention of opportunities for gainful employment within the jurisdiction of the City; (ii) serve a public purpose, and wil! be of benefit to the health and general welfare of the City; (iii) comply withthe purposes and provisions of the Act and it is in the public interest that the City take such lawful action as determined to be necessary or desirable to encourage the diversification of industry, the creation or retention of business opportunities, and the creation or retention of opportunities for gainful employment within the jurisdiction of the City; and (iv) not have a material adverse competitive effect on any similar facilities already constructed or operating in or near Marion County, Indiana.

SECTION 2. The forms of the Financing Documents presented herewith are hereby approved, with any and.all such changes as may be deemed necessary, desirable or appropriate by the Mayor and the Clerk of the City-County Council (the "Clerk”), and all such documents shall be kept on file by the Clerk or the
Controller of the City (the “Controtler’). lance with Indiana Code §36-1-5-4, two (2) copies of the
Financing Documents are-on file in the office of the Clerk for public inspection.

SECTION 3. The City is authorized to issue the Bonds in one or more series, any series of which may-be taxable or tax-exempt for federal income tax purposes, in the maximum aggregate principal amount. not to exceed One Hundred Thirty-Five Million One Hundred Forty-Five Thousand Dollars ($135, 145,000.00), with a maximum term not to exceed twenty-five (25) years from the date of the issuance of any series of the Bonds and with a maximum interest rate not to exceed six and one-half percent (6.5%) per annum (if issued on a tax-exempt basis for purposes of federal income taxes) or a maximum interest rate not to exceed eight percent (8.0%) per annum (if issued on a taxable basis for purposes of federal income taxes), all for the purpose of.procuring funds to (a) pay allor a portion of the costs of the Project bymaking a portion-of the proceeds of the Bonds-available to the Company and a portion of the proceeds available to the. City, (b) fund a debt service reserve fund or pay the cost of a premium for a debt service reserve fund surety policy (if necessary); (c) pay capitalized intereston the Bonds (if necessary), and (d) pay all incidental expenses incurred on account of the issuance of the Bonds and acquiring any credit enhancement with respect thereto (if any). The Bonds shall be payable as to principal and interest solely from incremental real.and/or personal property taxes derived from the Allocation Area, upon such terms and conditions as otherwise provided in the Financing Documents’and this Ordinance. Pending the issuance of the Bonds, the City may issue, if necessary, one or more series of bond anticipation notes (the “BANs’), with a maximum aggregate principal amount not to exceed One Hundred Thirty-Five Million
One Hundred Forty-Five Thousand Dollars ($135,145,000.00), with a maximum term of any series of
BANs not to exceed five (5) years after the date of delivery thereof, and with a maximum interest rate not to exceed five percent (5.0%) per annum (if issued on a tax-exempt basis for purposes of federal income taxes) or a maximum interest rate not to exceed six percent (6.0%) per annum (if issued on a taxable basis for purposes of federal income taxes), all for the purpose of procuring interim financing to pay all or a portion of the costs of the Project, capitalized interest on the BANs, If necessary, together with any incidental expenses related-thereto or incurred on account of the issuance ofthe BANs, which BANs shall be payable as to principal and interest solely from the proceeds of the Bonds, upon such terms and conditions as otherwise provided in the Financing Documents and this Ordinance. Neither the Bonds nor the BANs shall ever constitute a general obligation of, an indebtedness of, or charge against the general credit of the
City.

SECTION 4. The Mayor and the Controller are authorized and directed to sell the Bonds to the purchaser

or purchasers thereof at a price not less than ninety-eight and one-half percent (98.5%) of the aggregate

principal amount thereof plus accrued interest, if any, at a rate of interest not to exceed six and one-half

percent (6.5%) per annum(if issued on a tax-exempt basis for purposes of federal income taxes) or a

maximum interest rate not to exceed eight percent (8.0%) per annum (if issued on a taxable basis for
SPECIAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2021

[Page 4 of 7]
$.O. No. 6, 2021
Page 4

purposes of federal income taxes), and with a final maturity date no later than twenty-five (25) years from the date. of the issuance of any series-of the Bonds. One.or-more bond purchase agreements and/or one or more qualified entity purchase agreements, each in form and substance acceptable to the Mayor and the Controller (collectively, the “Purchase Agreements”), are hereby authorized and approved, and the
Mayor and the Controller are hereby authorized and directed to execute and deliver the Purchase
Agreements in form and substance acceptable to them and consistent with the terms and conditions set forth in this Ordinance. If necessary or desirable in connection with the sale of the Bonds, the Mayor, the
Controller and any other officer of the City are authorized to enter into one or more continuing disclosure undertaking agreements, in compliance with Rule [5c2-12 of the Securities and Exchange Commission, which will be in such a form as may be deemed necessary, appropriate or desirable by the Mayor, the
Controller and any other officer of the City, with such to be conclusively evidenced by their execution thereof.

SECTION 5. The Mayor and the Clerk are authorized and directed to execute the Financing Documents, and the Mayor, the Controller, the Clerk and any other officer of the City are authorized and directed to execute such other documents approved or authorized herein and any other document which may be necessary, appropriate or desirable to consummate the transaction contemplated by the Financing
Documents and this Ordinance, and their execution is hereby confirmed on behalf of the City. The signatures of the Mayor and the Clerk on the-Bonds which may be necessary or desirable to consummate the transaction, and their execution is hereby_confirmed on behalf of the City. The signatures of the- Mayor and the Clerk on the Bonds may be facsimile signatures. The Mayor, the Clerk, the Controller and any other officer of the City are authorized to arrange for the delivery of the Bonds to the purchaser, payment for which will be made in the manner set forth in the Financing Documents. The Mayor and the Clerk may, by their execution of the Financing Documents requiring their signatures and imprinting oftheir facsimile signatures thereon, approve any and all such changes therein and also in those Financing Documents which do not require the signature-of the Mayor or the Clerk without further approval of this City-County
Council or the Economic Development Commission if such changes do not affect terms set-forth in Sections 27(a)(1) through and including (a)(70) of the Act.

SECTION 6. The provisions of this Ordinance and the Financing Documents shall constitute a contract binding between the City and the holder or holders of the Bonds and after the issuance of said Bonds, this. Ordinance shall not be repealed or amended in any respect which would adversely affect the right of such holder or holders so long as said Bonds or the interest thereon remains unpaid.

SECTION 7. Subject to the provisions of Sections 5 and 13 of this Ordinance, if necessary or desirable,a
Preliminary Official Statement of the City relating to the Bonds (the “Preliminary Official Statement’), ina form acceptable to the Mayor, is hereby (a) authorized and approved, together with such changes in form and substance as may be deemed necessary or appropriate by the Mayor pursuant to Sections 5 and 13 of this Ordinance, (b) authorized and approved, as the same may be appropriately confirmed, modified and amended pursuant hereto, for-distribution as the Preliminary Official Statement of the City, (c) authorized to be deemed and determined by the Mayor on behalf of the City, as of its date, to constitute the “final” official statement of the City with respect to the Bonds to be offered thereby, subject to completion as permitted by and otherwise pursuant to the provisions of Rule [5c2-12 of the Securities and Exchange
Commission (the “SEC Rule”), and (d) authorized and approved, consistent with the provisions of any
Purchase Agreement and the SEC Rule, to be placed into final form and distributed and delivered to purchasers and potential purchasers of the Bonds offered thereby as the final officialstatement of the City, as of the date thereof, with respect to the Bonds (the “Official Statement”).

SECTION 8. Subject to the obligations of the Company set forth in the respective Financing Documents and/or.the certificates or agreements of the Company to be executed upon the issuance of the Bonds, if any of the Bonds are issued on a tax-exempt basis for purposes of federal income taxation, the City will use its best efforts to restrict‘the use of the proceeds of the Bonds in such a manner and to expectations at the time the Bonds are-delivered to the purchasers thereof, so that they will not constitute “arbitrage bonds’ under Section 148° of the Code and_the regulations promulgated thereunder, or to preserve any other desired tax status under the Code. The Mayor, the Controller and the Clerk, or any other officer having responsibility with respect to the issuance of the Bonds, are authorized and directed, alone er in conjunction with any of the foregoing, or with any other officer, employee, consultant or agent of the City, to deliver a certificate for inclusion in the transcript of proceedings for the Bonds, setting forth the facts, estimates and circumstances and reasonable expectations pertaining to the use of the Bond proceeds as of the date of issuance thereof.

SPECIAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2021

[Page 5 of 7]
S.O. No. 6, 2021
Page 5

SECTION. 9..No recourse under.or upon. any. obligation, covenant; acceptance or.agreement contained. in this Ordinance, the Financing Documents or under any judgment obtained against the City, including without limitation its Economic Development Commission, or by the enforcement of any assessment or by any legal or equitable proceeding by virtue of any constitution or statute or otherwise, or under any circumstances, under or independent of the Financing Documents, shall be had against any member, director, or officer or attorney, as such, past, present, or future, of the City, including without limitation its
Economic Development Commission, either directly or through the City, or otherwise, for the payment for or to the City or any receiver thereof or for or to any holder of the Bonds secured thereby, or otherwise, of any sum that may remain due and unpaid by the City upon any of the Bonds. Any and all personal liability of every nature, whether at common law or in equity, or by statute or by constitution or otherwise, of any such member, director, or officer or attorney, as such, to respond by reason of any act or omission on his or her part or otherwise for, directly or indirectly, the payment for or to the City or any receiver thereof, or for or to any owner or holder of the Bonds, or otherwise, of any sum that may remain due and unpaid upon the Bonds hereby secured or any of them, shall be expressly waived and released as a condition of and consideration for the execution and delivery of the Financing Documents and the issuance, sale and delivery of the Bonds.

SECTION 10. If any section, paragraph or provision of this Ordinance shall be held to be invalid or unenforceable for any reason, the.invalidity or unenforceability of such section, paragraph or provision shall not affect any of the remaining provisions of this Ordinance.

SECTION 11. All ordinances, resolutions and orders or parts thereof, in conflict with the provisions of this
Ordinance are, to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.

SECTION 12. It is hereby determined that all formal actions of the City-County Council relating to the adoption of this Ordinance were taken in one or more open meetings of the City-County Council, that alt deliberations of the City-County Council and of its committees, if any, which resulted in formal action, were in meetings open to the public, and that all such meetings were convened, held and conducted in compliance with applicable legal requirements, including indiana Code 5-14-1.5, as amended.

SECTION 13. The Mayor, the Controller, the Clerk and any other officer of the City are hereby authorized and directed, in the name and on behalf of the City, to execute, attest and deliver such further instruments and documents, and to’take such further actions, in the name of the City as in their judgment shall be necessary or advisable in order to fully consummate the transactions described herein and carry out the purposes of this Ordinance, and any such documents heretofore executed: and delivered and any such actions heretofore taken, be, and hereby are, ratified and approved. The Mayor or his designee is hereby authorized to enter into one or more project agreements with the Company, on terms and conditions acceptable to the Mayor, together with any and all changes as may be necessary, desirable or appropriate, which shall be evidenced by his execution thereof.

SECTION 14. The City-County Council does hereby acknowledge that the Bonds may be purchased with the proceeds of one or more series of bonds to be issued by The Indianapolis Local Public Improvement
Bond Bank (collectively, the “Bond Bank Bonds”), [and that the Bond Bank Bonds may be supported by one or more debt service reserve funds that will be subject to the provisions of iC 5-1.4-5-4 and Special
Ordinance 67, 85 of this ‘City-County Council].

SECTION 15. The City-County Council hereby declares its official intent, to the extent permitted by law, to issue the Bonds in one or more series or issues, not to exceed the maximum aggregate principal amount authorized herein, and to reimburse costs of the Project consisting of the Expenditures from proceeds of the sale of the Bonds.

SECTION 16. This Ordinance shall be in full force and effect upon adoption and compliance with Indiana
Code 36-3-4-14.

SPECIAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2021

[Page 6 of 7]
S.0. No. 6, 2021
Page 6

ATTEST:

es op tN Vop Osili
PbS ag hos Presidefit, City-County Council

SaRita Hughes
Clerk, City-County Council

Presented by me to the Mayor this 14" day of July, 2021. ;
rot ha

SaRita Hughes
Clerk, City-County Council

y t
Approved and signed by me this [ th day of July, 2021. all,

Joseph H. Hogsett, Mayor

STATE OF INDIANA, MARION COUNTY)
) 8s:
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS )

|, SaRita Hughes, Clerk of the City-County Council, indianapolis, Marion County, Indiana, do hereby certify

the above and. foregoing is a full, true, and complete copy of Proposal No. 177, 2021, a Proposal for a

SPECIAL ORDINANCE passed by the City-County Council on the 12! day of July, 2021, by a vote of 23

YEAS and" NAY and was retitled Special Ordinance No. 6, 2021, which was signed by the.Mayor on the ib day of July, 2021, and now remains on file and on record in my office.

t
WITNESS my hand and the official seal of the City of Indianapolis, Indiana, this [¢ day of July, 2021.
Eh! [ugpho

SaRita Hughes
Clerk, City-County Council

(SEAL)

SPECIAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2021

[Page 7 of 7]
Indianapolis City - County Council RCS# 201

2020-2023
2020-2023

7/12/2021 9:56 PM

Proposal: PROP21- 177 Ordinance: S.O. 6 (PASSED)
Sponsor: Jones
Action: Adopt
Committee: Metro. and Econ. Dev.

Yea: 23 Nay: 1 Abstain: 1 Not Voting: 0 Excused: 0
Yea - 23
Adamson Dilk Jones Oliver
Annee Evans-J Larrison Osili
Bain Graves Lewis Potts
Barth Gray Mascari Ray
Brown Hart McCormick Robinson
Carlino Jackson Mowery
Nay -1
Evans-E
Abstain - 1
Boots
Not Voting - 0

Excused - 0
