[Page 1 of 4]
CITY-COUNTY SPECIAL ORDINANCE NO. 11, 2025
Proposal No. 184, 2025

A SPECIAL ORDINANCE approving Payments in Lieu of Taxes (PILOTS’) as provided in Indiana Code § 36-3-2-12 (the “Act”) for an affordable housing project being financed in part with low-income housing tax credits pursuant to Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.

WHEREAS, the Act authorizes the legislative body of the City of Indianapolis (the “City”) to adopt an ordinance to require a property owner to pay PILOTS at times set forth in the ordinance with respect to real property that is subject to an exemption under Indiana Code § 6-1.1-10-16.7; and

WHEREAS, Indiana Code § 6-1.1-10-16.7 provides for a property tax exemption for a project where (1) the improvements on the real property were constructed, rehabilitated, or acquired for the purpose of providing housing to income eligible persons under the federal low income housing tax credit program under 26 U.S.C. § 42; (2) the real property is subject to an extended use agreement under 26 U.S.C. § 42 as administered by the Indiana Housing and Community Development Authority; and (3) the owner of the property has entered into an agreement to make payments in lieu of taxes under the Act; and

WHEREAS, Canal Village Ill, LP, an Indiana limited partnership (the “Owner’), has or will acquire certain real estate in Center Township, Marion County, Indiana, which consists of scattered parcels located off of Annette Street, Rader Street, Roache Street, West 25th Street, and West 28th Street, Indianapolis,
Indiana (as further described on Exhibit A to the PILOT Agreement (as defined herein)) (collectively, the “Real Estate”), and upon which Owner desires to develop thirty-three (33) affordable housing units for low- income residents known as Canal Village Ill (collectively with the Real Estate, the “Project’), which Owner has represented will be owned and operated as affordable housing facilities pursuant to the federal low income housing tax credit program under 26 U.S.C. § 42 with an extended use agreement that is expected to continue for [forrty (40)] years after completion of construction; and

WHEREAS, the City and Owner desire to approve the PILOTS to facilitate the Project and provide additional affordable housing in the City; and

WHEREAS, the terms and conditions of the PILOTS are contained in Exhibit A (the “PILOT
Agreement”), which include without limitation an annual payment equal fo twenty percent (20%) of the property taxes that would have been paid to the City if the Project was not subject to an exemption from property taxation during the term of the PILOT Agreement (the “PILOT Payments”); and

WHEREAS, pursuant to and in accordance with the Act, the City desires to authorize and enter into the
PILOT Agreement; now, therefore:

BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA:

SECTION 1. The forgoing recitals are fully incorporated herein by this reference.

SECTION 2. itis hereby found that the acquisition of the Real Estate and construction of the Project will be of benefit to the health or general welfare of the City and its citizens and does comply with the purposes and provisions of the Act.

SECTION 3. The PILOT Agreement is hereby approved by the City, and the Owner shall make the annual
PILOT Payments in accordance with the terms of the PILOT Agreement, which is conditioned upon, among other requirements, the Owner receiving property tax exemptions for the Project pursuant to indiana Code
§ 6-1.1-10-16.7.

SECTION 4. In accordance with Indiana Code § 36-3-2-12(h), the PILOT Payments shall be deposited in the City’s housing trust fund established under Indiana Code § 36-7-15.1-35.5 and used for any purpose for which the housing trust fund may be used.

SECTION 5. In accordance with Indiana Code § 36-3-2-12(e), the Owner has consented to this Ordinance and the PILOT Payments, which shall be illustrated by the City’s Department of Metropolitan Development (“DMD”) and Owner executing the PILOT Agreement in substantially the same form of the attached, subject fo necessary and appropriate updates and revisions agreed to by DMD and the Owner.

SPECIAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2025

[Page 2 of 4]
S.O. No. 11, 2025
Page 2

execute any other document which may be necessary or desirable to consummate the transaction, and
DMD’s execution is hereby confirmed on behalf of the City. The signature of the authorized signatory of
DMD and the City Controller on the PILOT Agreement may be facsimile signatures.

SECTION 7. By adopting this Ordinance, authorizing and directing DMD and the City Controller to finalize and execute the PILOT Agreement, and authorizing the PILOT Payments, the City has undertaken all required action contained within the Act.

SECTION 8. If any section, paragraph or provision of tl Ordinance shall be held to be invalid or unenforceable forany reason, the invalidity or unenforceability of such section, paragraph or provision shall not affect any of the remaining provisions of this Ordinance.

SECTION 9. All ordinances, resolutions and orders or parts thereof, in conflict with the provisions of this
Ordinance are, to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.

SECTION 10. It is hereby determined that all formal actions of the Council relating to the adoption of this
Ordinance were taken in one or more open meetings of the Council, that all deliberations of the Council and of its committees, if any, which resulted in formal action, were in meetings open to the public, and that all such meetings were convened, held and conducted in compliance with applicable legal requirements, including Indiana Code 5-14-1.5 et seq., as amended.

SECTION 11. DMD and City Controller are authorized to take all such further actions or to execute, attest and deliver such further instruments and documents in the name of the City as in DMD’s and the City
Controller's judgment shall be necessary or advisable in order to fully consummate the PILOT Agreement and the Project and carry out the purposes of this Ordinance.

SECTION 12. This Ordinance shall be in full force and effect upon adoption and compliance with Indiana
Code § 36-3-4-14 and shall automatically terminate upon the termination of the PILOT Agreement.

The foregoing was passed by the City-County Council this 8" day of September, 2025, at 7:24 p.m.

ATTEST: WE

Op Osili

] ! p . PY President, City-County Council

Yulonda Winfield
Clerk, City-County Council

Presented by me to the Mayor this 9th day of September, 2025 Z

Yulonda Winfield 4

Clerk, City-County Council

Approved and signed by me this gt. day of September, 2025.
io Hogseitt, J

H. Mayor

SPECIAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2025

[Page 3 of 4]
S.O. No. 11, 2025
Page 3

STATE OF INDIANA, MARION COUNTY)
) Ss:
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS )

1, Yulonda Winfield, Clerk of the City-County Council, Indianapolis, Marion County, Indiana, do hereby certify the above and foregoing is a full, true, and complete copy of Proposal No. 184, 2025, a Proposal for a
SPECIAL ORDINANCE passed by the City-County Council on the 8th day of September, 2025, by a vote of 25 YEAS and 0 NAYS, and was retitled Special Ordinance No. 11, 2025, which was signed by the Mayor on the th. day of September, 2025, and now remains on file and on record in my office.

WITNESS my hand and the official seal of the City of Indianapolis, Indiana, this Gt day of September, 2025.

Yulonda Winfield raf
Clerk, City-County Council

(SEAL)

SPECIAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2025

[Page 4 of 4]
Indianapolis City - County Council RCS# 847

2020-2023
2024-2027
9/8/2025 7:24 PM
Proposal: PROP-25 184 Ordinance: S.O. 11 (PASSED)
Sponsor: OSILI
Action: Adopt
Committee: Metro. and Econ. Dev.
Yea: 25 Nay: 0 Abstain: 0 Not Voting: 0 Excused: 0
Yea - 25
Allen Cahill Graves Mowery
Annee Carlino Hart Nielsen
Bain Delaney Jones Osili
Barth Dilk Lewis Perkins
Boots Evans Mascari Roberts
Brown-A Gibson McCormick Robinson
Brown-J
Nay - 0
Abstain - 0
Not Voting - 0

Excused - 0
