[Page 1 of 6]
CITY-COUNTY SPECIAL ORDINANCE NO. 11, 2023
Proposal No. 198, 2023

A SPECIAL ORDINANCE of the City-County Council of the City of Indianapolis and of Marion County,
Indiana, authorizing the issuance of one or more series of its City of Indianapolis, indiana, Economic
Development Tax Increment Revenue Bonds, Series 2023 (County Line Road Project) (with such further or different series designation as may be necessary, desirable or appropriate, including such series designation to indicate the year in which the bonds are issued), in a maximum aggregate principal amount not to exceed Nineteen Million Nine Hundred Fifty-Two Thousand Dollars ($19,952,000), for the purpose of providing funds to pay the costs of the Public Improvements (as defined herein) and approving and authorizing other actions in respect thereto.

WHEREAS, Indiana Code 36-7-11.9 and 12 (collectively, the “Act’) declares that the financing and refinancing of economic development facilities constitutes a public purpose; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to the Act, the City of Indianapolis, Indiana (the “City”), is authorized to issue revenue bonds for the purpose of financing, reimbursing, or refinancing the costs of acquisition, construction, renovation, installation, and equipping of economic development facilities in order to foster diversification of economic development and creation or retention of opportunities for gainful employment in or near the City; and

WHEREAS, GP-CM County Line Partners, LLC, and/or one or more affiliates and/or designees (collectively, the “Developer”), has informed the City that it will be constructing and developing a development consisting of (i) a five-building, 1,900,000 sq. ft. master planned industrial park, to include warehouses, light manufacturing and general commerce (Building 1 will be approximately 344,100 sq. ft.;
Building 2 will be approximately 324,800 sq. ft.; Building 3 will be approximately 573,192 sq. ft.; Building 4 will be approximately 101,640 sq. ft.; and Building 5 will be approximately 553,660 sq. ft.); as well as 6.4 acres for retail and mixed-use development, located at 8615, 8640, 8721, 8814, 8816, 8840, 8914, and 8950 South Arlington Avenue, and 5624, 5740, and 6000 East County Line Road in the City (the “Industrial
Park Project’) and (ii) the certain widening of and lane additions from the northern end of the Industrial Park
Project to the intersection of South Arlington Avenue and County Line Road in the City, a roundabout at the
South Arlington Avenue and County Line Road intersection, and certain other public improvements in connection with the Industrial Park Project (the “Public improvements”), together with all necessary appurtenances, related improvements and equipment, and incidental expenses in connection therewith are collectively, the “Project”; and

WHEREAS, the Public Improvements are, or be, located in or physically connected to and shail serve or benefit the Allocation Area (as defined herein), shall be constructed in accordance with the City’s standards, shall serve one or more essential governmental functions of the City and when completed shall be deeded by the Developer to the City; and

WHEREAS, the Industrial Park Project will be located on approximately 172 acres of property located at 8615, 8640, 8721, 8814, 8816, 8840, 8974, and 8950 South Arlington Avenue, and 5624, 5740, and 6000 East County Line Road in the City, which is in City-County Council District 25, and the Industrial Park
Project is, or will be, located in the County Line Road Economic Development Area and the County Line
Road Allocation Area, an allocation area (the “Allocation Area”) as established by the Metropolitan
Development Commission of Marion County, Indiana, acting as the Redevelopment Commission of the
City; and

WHEREAS, Developer has advised the Indianapolis Economic Development Commission (the “Commission’) and the City concerning the Project and requested that the City issue one or more series of its Economic Development Tax Increment Revenue Bonds, Series 2023 (County Line Road Project) (with such further or different series designation as may be necessary, desirable or appropriate, including such series designation to indicate the year in which the bonds are issued), in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed Nineteen Million Nine Hundred Fifty-Two Thousand Dollars ($19,952,000) (the “Bonds”) under the Act, and make the proceeds of the Bonds, inclusive of costs of issuance and, if necessary, capitalized interest and funding a reserve for the Bonds, if necessary, available to Developer for construction or reimbursement of the costs of financing the Public Improvements; and

WHEREAS, the Commission has rendered its report regarding the proposed financing of the Public
Improvements as an economic development facility for Developer and the Metropolitan Development

SPECIAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2023

[Page 2 of 6]
S.O. No. 11, 2023
Page 2

Commission of Marion County, Indiana, as Plan Commission, and the Superintendent of the indianapolis
Public Schools have been given an opportunity to comment on the thereon; and

WHEREAS, the Commission has heretofore conducted a public hearing in accordance with Indiana
Code 36-7-12-24 and adopted its resolution subsequent thereto finding that the financing of the Publi
Improvements complies with the purposes and provisions of the Act and that such financing will be of benefit to the health and welfare of the City; and

WHEREAS, the Commission has heretofore approved and recommended the adoption of this form of ordinance by this City-County Council, has considered the issue of adverse competitive effect, and has approved the forms of and has transmitted for approval by the City-County. Council the Financing
Documents (as hereinafter defined); and

WHEREAS, pursuant to and in accordance with the Act, the City desires to provide funds necessary to finance and reimburse the Public improvements by issuing the Bonds; and

WHEREAS, Section 1.150-2 of the Treasury Regulations on Income Tax (collectively, the “Reimbursement Regulations”) specify conditions under which a reimbursement allocation may be treated as an expenditure of proceeds of Bonds, and the City intends by this Ordinance to qualify amounts advanced by it to the Public Improvements for reimbursement from proceeds of the Bonds in accordance with the requirements of the Reimbursement Regulations; and

WHEREAS, the Act provides that such Bonds may be secured by a trust indenture between an issuer and a corporate trustee; and

WHEREAS, the City intends to issue the Bonds consistent with the terms of this Ordinance and pursuant to a Trust Indenture, to be dated as of the first day of the month in which the Bonds are sold or delivered (or such other date as the officers of the City may hereafter approve) (the “Bond indenture’), by and between the City and a corporate trustee to be selected by the City (the “Bond Trustee”), in order to obtain funds necessary to provide for the financing the Public Improvements, in accordance with the terms of a Financing Agreement, to be dated the first day of the month in which the Bonds are sold or delivered (or such other date as the officers of the City may hereafter approve) (the “Financing Agreement”), by and between the City and Developer with respect to the Bonds and the Project; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to the Financing Agreement, Developer make certain representations, warranties, and commitments with respect fo the Project, which will permit the City to derive incremental real property tax revenues from the Industrial Park Project within the Allocation Area (the “County Line
Road TIF Revenues’), sufficient to pay principal of and interest on the Bonds, as the same become due and payable, pay administrative expenses in connection with the Bonds and, if necessary, capitalized interest and funding a reserve for the Bonds, if necessary, as further described herein; and

WHEREAS, no member of the City-County Council has any pecuniary interest in any employment, financing agreement, or other contract made under the provisions of the Act and related to the Bonds authorized herein, which pecuniary interest has not been fully disclosed to the City-County Council and no such member has voted on any such matter, all in accordance with the provisions of Indiana Code 36-7- 12-16; and

WHEREAS, there has been submitted to the Commission for its approval forms of the Bond Indenture, the Bonds, and the Financing Agreement (collectively, the “Financing Documents”), and a form of this proposed Ordinance, which were incorporated by reference in the Commission's Resolution adopted on
July 12, 2023 (the “Resolution”), which Resolution has been transmitted to the City-County Council; and

WHEREAS, prior to the issuance of the Bonds, the Metropolitan Development Commission of Marion
County, Indiana, acting as the Redevelopment Commission of the City, will pledge up to eighty percent (80%) of the County Line Road TIF Revenues as the sole payment of interest on and principal of the Bonds (the "Piedged TIF Revenues’); and

WHEREAS, based upon the resolution adopted by the Commission pertaining to the Project, the City-
County Council hereby finds and determines that the financing and reimbursement approved by the
SPECIAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2023

[Page 3 of 6]
S.O. No. 11, 2023
Page 3

Commission for the Public Improvements will be of benefit to the health and general welfare of the citizens of the City, complies with the provisions of the Act, and the amount necessary to finance and reimburse the costs of the Public Improvements will require the issuance, sale, and delivery of one or more series of economic development tax increment revenue bonds in an aggregate combined principal amount not to exceed Nineteen Million Nine Hundred Fifty-Two Thousand Dollars ($19,952,000); now, therefore:

BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA:

SECTION 1. It is hereby found, determined, ratified, and confirmed that the financing and reimbursement of the economic development facilities referred to in the Financing Documents consisting of the Project, the issuance and sale of the Bonds, and the use of the net proceeds thereof to finance and reimburse the
Public Improvements (i) will result in the diversification of industry, the creation or retention of business opportunities, and the creation or retention of opportunities for gainful employment within the jurisdiction of the City; (ii) will serve a public purpose and will be of benefit to the health and general welfare of the City;
(ii) complies with the purposes and provisions of the Act and it is in the public interest that the City take such lawful action as determined to be necessary or desirable to encourage the diversification of industry, the creation or retention of business opportunities, and the creation or retention of opportunities for gainful employment within the jurisdiction of the City; and (iv) will not have a material adverse competitive effect on any similar facilities already constructed or operating in or near the City.

SECTION 2. The forms of the Financing Documents presented herewith are hereby approved and ail such documents shall be kept on file by the Clerk of the City-County Council or City Controller. In compliance with Indiana Code 36-1-5-4, two (2) copies of the Financing Documents are on file in the office of the Clerk of the City-County Council for public inspection.

SECTION 3. The City shall issue its Bonds in one or more series, any series of which may be taxable or tax-exempt for federal income tax purposes, in the maximum aggregate principal amount not to exceed
Nineteen Million Nine Hundred Fifty-Two Thousand Dollars ($19,952,000), with a maximum term not to exceed twenty-five (25) years from the date of issuance and with a maximum interest rate not to exceed eight percent (8.0%) per annum, for the purpose of procuring funds to finance the Public Improvements, costs of issuance of the Bonds and, if necessary, ca ed interest and funding a reserve for the Bonds, ifnecessary, which Bonds will be payable as to principal and interest solely from the Pledged TIF Revenues, upon such terms and conditions as otherwise provided in the Financing Documents and this Ordinance.
The Bends shall never constitute a general obligation of, an indebtedness of, or charge against the general credit of the City. The Bonds shall be purchased by and delivered to the Developer or a third-party purchaser provided by the Developer. The Bonds shall be subject to optional redemption as set forth in the Bond
Indenture.

SECTION 4. The City reasonably expects (as defined in Treasury Regulation 1.148-1(b)) to use the proceeds of the Bonds to reimburse expenditures for the Public Improvements as made prior to the completion of the final financing package for said Public Improvements (a “Reimbursement Expenditure”). The City reasonably expects to reimburse each Reimbursement Expenditure with funds made available as a result of such Bonds and intends that this statement be a declaration of official intent under Treasury Regulation 1.150- 2(e). There are no funds from sources. other than the Bonds that are, or are reasonably expected to be, reserved, allocated on a long-term basis, or otherwise set aside of the City or by any member of the same controlled group (as defined in Treasury Regulation 1.150-1(e)) as the City pursuant to their budget and financial policies with respect to any Reimbursement Expenditure.

SECTION 5. The Mayor, the Controller, and any other officer of the City are authorized and directed to execute the Financing Documents, such other documents approved or authorized herein and any other document which may be necessary, appropriate, or desirable to consummate the transaction contemplated by the Financing Documents and this Ordinance, and their execution is hereby confirmed on behalf of the
City. The signatures of the Mayor, the Controller, and any other officer of the City on the Bonds which may be necessary or desirable to consummate the transactions, and their execution is hereby confirmed on behalf of the City. The signatures of the Mayor, the Controller, and any other officer of the City on the Bonds may be facsimile signatures. The Mayor, the Controller, and any other officer of the City are authorized to arrange for the delivery of such Bonds to the purchaser, payment for which will be made in the manner set forth in the respective Financing Documents. The Mayor, the Controller, and any other officer of the City may, by their execution of the Financing Documents requiring their signatures and imprinting of their
SPECIAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2023

[Page 4 of 6]
8.0. No. 11, 2023
Page 4

facsimile signatures thereon, approve any and all such changes therein and also in those Financing
Documents which do not require the signature of the Mayor, the Controller, or any other officer of the City without further approval of this City-County Council or the Commission if such changes do not affect terms set forth in Sections 27(a)(1)} through and including (a)(10) of the Act.

SECTION 6. The provisions of this Ordinance and the Financing Documents shall constitute a contract binding between the City and the holder or holders of the Bonds and after the issuance of said Bonds, this
Ordinance shall not be repealed or amended in any respect which would adversely affect the right of such holder or holders so long as said Bonds or the respective interest thereon remains unpaid.

SECTION 7. The Mayor and the Clerk, or any other officer having responsibility with respect to the issuance of the Bonds, are authorized and directed, alone or in conjunction with any of the foregoing, or with any other officer, employee, consultant or agent of the City, fo deliver a certificate for inclusion in the transcript of proceedings for the Bonds, setting forth the facts, estimates and circumstances, and reasonable expectations pertaining to the use of the Bond proceeds as of the date of issuance thereof.

SECTION 8. No recourse under or upon any obligation, covenant, acceptance, or agreement contained in this Ordinance, the Financing Documents, or under any judgment obtained against the City, including without limitation the Commission, or by the enforcement of any assessment or by any legal or equitable proceeding by virtue of any constitution or statute or otherwise, or under any circumstances, under or independent of the Financing Agreement, shall be had against any member, director, or officer or attorney, as such, past, present, or future, of the City, including without limitation the Commission, either directly or through the City, or otherwise, for the payment for or to the City or any receiver thereof or for or to any holder of the Bonds secured thereby, or otherwise, of any sum that may remain due and unpaid by the City upon any of such Bonds. Any and ali personal liability of every nature, whether at common law or in equity, or by statute or by constitution or otherwise, of any such member, director, or officer or attorney, as such, to respond by reason of any act or omission on his or her part or otherwise for, directly or indirectly, the payment for or to the City or any receiver thereof, or for or to any owner or hoider of the Bonds, or otherwise, of any sum that may remain due and unpaid upon the Bonds hereby secured or any of them, shall be expressly waived and released as a condition of and consideration for the execution and delivery of the
Financing Agreement and the issuance, sale and delivery of the Bonds.

SECTION 9. If any section, paragraph, or provision of this Ordinance shall be held to be invalid or unenforceable for any reason, the invalidity or unenforceability of such section, paragraph, or provision shall not affect any of the remaining provisions of this Ordinance.

SECTION 10. All ordinances, resolutions, and orders, or parts thereof, in conflict with the provisions of this
Ordinance are, to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.

SECTION 11. It is hereby determined that all formal actions of the City-County Council relating to the adoption of this Ordinance were taken in one or more open meetings of the City-County Council, that all deliberations of the City-County Council and of its committees, if any, which resulted in formal action, were in meetings open to the public, and that all such meetings were convened, held, and conducted in compliance with applicable legal requirements, including Indiana Code 5-14-1.5, as amended.

SECTION 12. The Mayor, the Controller, the Clerk, and any other officer of the City are hereby authorized and directed, in the name and on behalf of the City, to execute and deliver such further documents and to take such further actions as such person deems necessary or desirable to effect the purposes of this
Ordinance, and any such documents heretofore executed and delivered and any such actions heretofore taken, be, and hereby are, ratified and approved.

SECTION 13. This Ordinance shall be in full force and effect upon compliance with Indiana Code 36-3-4- 14,

SPECIAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2023

[Page 5 of 6]
S.0. No. 11, 2023
Page 5

The foregoing was passed by the City-County Council this 14 day of August, 2023, at 8:18 p.m.

ATTEST:

Vop Osili
President City-County Council

Yulonda Winfield
Clerk, City-County Council

Presented by me to the Mayor this 15%" day of August, 2023

Yulonda Winfield
Clerk, City-County Council

hd

Oo
J . Hoggett, Mayor

Approved and signed by me this [Bt day of August, 2023.

STATE OF INDIANA, MARION COUNTY)
) SS:
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS )

|, Yulonda Winfield, Clerk of the City-County Council, Indianapolis, Marion County, indiana, do hereby certify

the above and foregoing is a full, true, and complete copy of Proposal No. 198, 2023, a Proposal for a

SPECIAL ORDINANCE passed by the City-County Council on the 14 day of August, 2023, by a vote of 24

YEAS rye NAYS, and was retitled Special Ordinance No. 11, 2023, which was signed by the Mayor on the 5 day of August, 2023, and now remains on file and on record in my office.

WITNESS my hand and the official seal of the City of Indianapolis, Indiana, this [Sb say of August, 2023,

Yulonda Winfield
Clerk, City-County Council

(SEAL)

SPECIAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2023

[Page 6 of 6]
Indianapolis City - County Council ; RCS# 1297
2020-2023
2020-2023

8/14/2023 8:18 PM
VOTED AS PART OF

GROUP RCS #1295
Proposal: PROP23- 198 Ordinance: S.O. 11 (PASSED)
Sponsor: MOWERY
Action: Adopt
Committee: Metro. and Econ. Dev.
Yea: 24 Nay: 0 Abstain: 0 Not Voting: 1 Excused: 0
Yea - 24
Adamson Dilk Jackson Mowery
Annee Evans-E Jones Oliver
Bain Evans-J Larrison Osili
Barth Graves Lewis Potts
Brown Gray Mascari Ray
Carlino Hart McCormick Robinson
Nay -0
Abstain - 0
Not Voting - 0
Not Voting - 1

Boots
