[Page 1 of 6]
CITY-COUNTY GENERAL ORDINANCE NO. 27, 2022
Proposal No. 201, 2022

A PROPOSAL FOR A GENERAL ORDINANCE to amend Chapter 115, Article Ill of the Code regarding the
Central Indiana Regional Development Authority.

WHEREAS, on or around March 18, 2020, Governor Holcomb signed P.L.83-2020 (SEA 350) (the “Act’), which allows eligible political subdivisions located in the Indianapolis-Carmel-Anderson Metropolitan Statistical
Area to create the Central Indiana Regional Development Authority (the "Development Authority”) and to carry out its powers as more particularly described in the Act;

WHEREAS, the Development Authority is a separate body corporate and politic that shall carry out the purposes of the Act;

WHEREAS, the Development Authority has the powers enumerated by the Act;
WHEREAS, the Development Authority may be established by (i) one or more counties and one more

adjacent counties, (ii) one more counties and one or more municipalities in adjacent counties, or (ili) one or more municipalities and one or more municipalities in adjacent counties;

WHEREAS, the Act permits the City of Indianapolis to immediately withdraw from the development authority to which they belong in order to join the Development Authority;

WHEREAS, the Development Authority shall be governed by a-strategy committee whose composition and structure will be established by a preliminary development plan (the “Plan”), which in accordance with the
Act, is adopted herein; and

WHEREAS, the City of Indianap and Marion County now desires to become a member of the
Development Authority, pursuant to Ind. Code §36-7.7-3-9; now, therefore:

BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA:

SECTION 1. The Council hereby authorizes the Consolidated City of Indianapolis and Marion County (“City”) fe become a member of the Development Authority pursuant to the Act. The City shall be a member of the development authority for not less than five years.

SECTION 2. The Council hereby approves the preliminary development pian of the development authority, as more particularly described in SECTION 3.

SECTION 3. Chapter 115 of the "Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County” is hereby amended by striking Article Ill, Chapter 115 in its entirety and adopting a new Article lil, Chapter 115 to read as follows:

ARTICLE Hl. - CENTRAL INDIANA REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
Sec. 115-301. ~ Establishment.

The Central Indiana Regional Development Authority is hereby established as a regional development authority pursuant to IC 36-7.7 et. seq.

Sec. 115-302. — Naming and Participating Members.

(a) The name of the development authority is the Central Indiana Regional Development Authority (the “RDA’). The RDA may establish such acronyms or abbreviations as may be appropriate for business use, and may establish logos, service marks, or trademarks as may be appropriate to further its purposes, mission recognition and goals.

(b) Subject to taking the enabling actions as provided in Ind. Code §36-7.7 ef. seq. (the “Act’), the participating members of the RDA may include any eligible political subdivision, described in IC 36-7.7-2- 7, that is located in the Indianapolis-Carmel-Anderson Metropolitan Statistical Area (as defined by the
United States Census Bureau).

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2022

[Page 2 of 6]
G.O. No. 27, 2022
Page 2

Sec. 115-303. ~- Purpose and Powers.

(a) General Purpose and Duties. The RDA is a separate body corporate and politic that shall carry out the purposes of IC 36-7.7-3-2

(b) General Duties. The-RDA shall perform those duties outlined in IC 36-7.7-5-1.
(c) General Powers. The RDA may perform any of the activities listed in IC 36-7.7-5-2.

Sec. 115-304. - Membership; Strategy Committee.

(a)Membership. The management and affairs of the RDA shail be vested in the Strategy Committee (the “Committee’).

(b) Committee. The Committee shail consist of (i) the chief executive officer (or their designee) of each political subdivision with a population of 7,500 people or greater (the “Population Threshold”), and (ii) one (1) chief executive officer (or their designee) to collectively represent all political subdivisions who do not meet or exceed the Population Threshold. Each member of the committee, before entering upon the duties of office, must take and.subscribe an oath of office under Ind: Code §5-4-1, which shall be endorsed upon the certificate of appointment and filed with the records of the Committee. A member of the committee is not entitied to receive any compensation for performance of the member's duties. The Committee structure shall be re-evaluated every five (5) years. Service on the Strategy Comimittee does not constitute a “lucrative office” pursuant to Article II, § 9 of the Indiana Constitution.

(c) Chair, Officers. In January of each year, the Committee shall hold an organizational meeting at which the Committee shall elect the following officers from the members of the Committee: (i) chair, (if) vice secretary-treasurer. The affirmative vote of at least a majority of the members of the
Committee is necessary to elect an officer under this section. An officer elected under this section serves from the date of the officer's election until the officer's successor is elected and qualified.

(d) Ex Officio Officer. The Mayor of the Consolidated. City of Indianapolis is an ex officio officer of the
Committee. This appointment is in addition to the committee appointment described in Sec. 115-304(b).

(e) Meetings; Quorum; Voting. The committee shall meet at least quarterly. The chair of the Committee or any two (2) members of the committee may call a-special meeting of the Committee. A majority of the appointed members of the Committee constitutes a.quorum. The affirmative votes of at least a majority of the appointed members of the Committee are necessary to authorize any action of the Committee.

(f} Bylaws. The Committee shall adopt the bylaws and rules that the Committee considers necessary for the proper conduct of the Committee's duties and the safeguarding of the RDA’s funds and property.

Sec. 115-305. — Regional Strategy Fund.

(a) The Committee shall establish and administer a regional strategy fund (the “Fund”) under IC 36- 7.76 that consists of the following:

i. | any payments required under an interlocal agreement for a project that specifically states:
A. the amount for which each member is responsible; and
B. the term of the agreement. The transfers allowed by this subdivision may be made from any local revenue of the county or municipality, including property tax revenue, distributions, incentive payments, money deposited in the county's or municipality's local major moves construction fund: under IC 8-14-16, money received by the county or municipality under a development agreement (as defined by IC 36-1-8-9.5), or any other local revenue that is not otherwise restricted by law or committed for the payment of other obligations;
money received from the federal government,
gifts, contributions, donations, and private grants made to the fund; and iv. money transferred to the RDA under an interlocal agreement.

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2022

[Page 3 of 6]
G.O. No. 27, 2022
Page 3

(b) The Committee shall designate a participating member to be the administrator of the Fund at no cost fo the RDA. The designated member shall only make disbursements pursuant to instructions by the
Committee.

Sec. 115-306. - Comprehensive Strategic Economic Development Plan.

(a) The RDA shall prepare a comprehensive strategic economic development plan (“Comprehensive
Plan’) to serve as a roadmap to diversify and strengthen the regional economy, establish regional goals and objectives, develop and implement a regional action plan, identify ways to eliminate duplicative government services within the region, and identify investment priorities and funding sources, all in accordance with IC 36-7.7-3-4

Sec. 115-307. — Strategy for Attracting Investments.

As further established by the Comprehensive Plan, the RDA will focus.on the following strategies for attracting (or any projected) investments, grants, matching funds, or local tax revenue:

(a) Key Sectors
i. Health Care & Medical Technology. Establish more educational opportunities for healthcare certifications and create career pathways for advanced medical degrees ii, | Software Development. Develop a targeted recruitment plan for tech talent; and partner with regional. stakeholders:to identify key strategic advantages for the region.

Logistics & Manufacturing. Partner with higher education institutions to create a roundtable

for automation and robotics; create a rigorous training program in automation and robotics

field culminating in a certificate or credential; and introduce robotics and automation into

K-12 curriculum.

iv. Green Jobs. Create incentives for green energy in homes, schools, retail shops, offices, and industrial facilities to support sustainability; and develop training and credential programs for high-demand green jobs.

v. Finance & Insurance. Launch an aggressive program to recruit more finance and industry sector remote workers to the region.

i. Engage Leamers Early. Correlate skills with wages and opportunities; encourage digital skills development; and expand the work and learn Indiana portal to younger adults and promote it in Central Indiana high schools.

ii | Advocate for Adult Learners. Increased access to childcare; and short-term training

options.

Community Support. Establish a “choice employers” designation; and set postsecondary

benchmarks.

(c) Quality of Place; Green Space. Implement recommendations from the White River Visioning Plan;
identifying future park locations and implement standards for new green spaces, increase Walk
Score by connecting broken sidewalk segments and expand and connect trail infrastructure, expand and connect trail infrastructure; complete housing studies for communities in the RDA;
consider new policies for mixed-use developments; and identify opportunities for senior housing projects.

(d) Improved Access to Health. Expand telehealth options from focal providers to increase medical care access and improve productivity; promote healthy lifestyles through community campaigns;
prioritize alternative transportation plans; and implement SNAP benefits for use at farmers markets.

(e) Entrepreneurship.
i. | Co-Working Networks. Establish co-working spaces and mentorship networks within each participating member’s community; and implement policies to support women, minorities, and veterans and their entrepreneurial efforts.

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2022

[Page 4 of 6]
G.O. No. 27, 2022
Page 4

ii. Regional Marketing for Entrepreneur Programs. Increase regional visibility as a tech hub;
attract an international venture capital conference to the region; and establish targets for awarding public contracts to entrepreneurs and small businesses within the region.

(f} infrastructure.

i. Autonomous and Electric Vehicles. Market the region to facilitate autonomous vehicle investment; and support autonomous and electric vehicle adoption through investments in new infrastructure.

Regional Roadway Investment. Develop a regional investment strategy for roadways; and incentivize communities to collaborate on large infrastructure projects.

Broadband. 100% coverage of high-speed broadband service for the entire region; build upon the Next Level Connections broadband program; and co-locate broadband with new and existing infrastructure, including above-ground infrastructure, and then codify a “dig once” policy within the region.

Sec. 115-308. —- Vacating Development Authority.

A county or municipality shall be a member of the RDA for not less than five years (‘Initial
Commitment”). After completing its Initial Commitment, a participating member may vacate the RDA subject to (i) providing all Members with. two year’s written notice of its intent to vacate, and (ii) the fiscal body of the participating member. must adopt an ordinance to vacate membership in the RDA.

SECTION 4. The expressed or implied repeal or amendment by this ordinance of any other ordinance or part of any other ordinance does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this ordinance. Those rights, liabilities, and proceedings are continued, and penalties shall be imposed and enforced under the repealed or amended ordinance as if this ordinance had not been adopted.

SECTION 5. Should any provision (section, paragraph, sentence, clause, or any other portion) of this ordinance be declared by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, the remaining provision or provisions shall not be affected, if and only if such remaining provisions can, without the invalid provision or provisions, be given the effect intended by the Council in adopting this ordinance. To this end the provisions of this ordinance are severable.

SECTION 6. This ordinance shall be irreffect from and after its passage by the Council and compliance with Ind. Code § 36-3-4-14.

The foregoing was passed by the City-County Council this 6" day of June, 2022, at 8:07 p.m.

ATTEST:

ode Vop Osili
PhS raged Presiden

ity-County Council

SaRita Hughes
Clerk, City-County Counci

Presented by me to the Mayor this 7 day of June, 2022.

SSP

SaRita Hughes
Clerk, City-County Council

the
Approved and signed by me this se day of June, 7; ALA

Joseph H. Hogsett, Mayor
GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2022

[Page 5 of 6]
G.O. No. 27, 2022
Page 5

STATE OF INDIANA, MARION COUNTY)
) ss:
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS )

|, SaRita Hughes, Clerk of the City-County Council, Indianapolis, Marion County, Indiana, do hereby certify the above and foregoing is a full, true, and complete copy of Proposal No. 201, 2022, a Proposal for a
GENERAL ORDINANCE passed by the City-County Council on the 6" day of June, 2022, by a vote of 23
YEAS ae Mone and was retitied General Ordinance No. 27, 2022, which was signed by the Mayor on the (\ day of June, 2022, and now remains on file and on record in my office.

WITNESS my hand and the official seal of the City of Indianapolis, indiana, this Ue day of June, 2022.

SaRita Hughes
Clerk, City-County Council

(SEAL)

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2022

[Page 6 of 6]
Indianapolis City - County Council RCS# 682

2020-2023
2020-2023
6/6/2022 8:07 PM
Proposal: PROP22- 201 Ordinance: G.O..27 (PASSED)
Sponsor: Osili, Lewis
Action: Adopt
Committee: Metro. and Econ. Dev.
Yea: 23 Nay: 0 Abstain: 0 Not Voting: 0 Excused: 2
Yea - 23
Adamson Carlino Jackson Oliver
Annee Dilk Jones
Bain Evans-E Larrison Potts
Barth Evans-J Lewis Ray
Boots Graves McCormick Robinson
Brown Hart Mowery
Nay -0
Abstain - 0
Excused - 2
Gray Mascari

Excused - 0
