[Page 1 of 3]
CITY-COUNTY SPECIAL RESOLUTION NO. 32, 2023
Proposal No. 227, 2023

A SPECIAL RESOLUTION recognizing Mayor Joe Hogsett and the Indianapolis City-County Coun’ commitment to investment in Marion County's infrastructure, despite state road funding disparities.

WHEREAS, Marion County operates as a donor county, contributing more in taxes to the state than it receives back for road funding; and

WHEREAS, Indianapolis residents have suffered from decades of underinvestment in Marion County’s local roads, highly traveled thoroughfares, and bridges, as a result of state road funding that is allocated based on how long a road is, without regard to how wide or frequently traveled that road happens to be;
and

WHEREAS, despite state road funding disparities, Mayor Joe Hogsett and the Indianapolis City-County
Council have made historic investments in Marion County's infrastructure, working together to overcome a structural budget deficit, add $30 million in new public works equipment, increase the transportation budget from $78 million in 2017 to $252 million in 2023, and invest more than $100 million in long-overlooked residential streets without adding additional burden to Marion County taxpayers; and

WHEREAS, Mayor Hogsett has worked with the Indiana General Assembly to adjust the current state road funding formula to better represent Marion County’s population and lay groundwork for future conversations involving the state road funding formula’s impact on Marion County’s infrastructure; and

WHEREAS, Marion County and its infrastructure play a critical role in the economic health and cultural landscape of Central Indiana, supporting not only the residents of Indianapolis, but the region as a whole.
Inaction on infrastructure risks falling behind those with whom we compete for students, talent, jobs, and residents; and

WHEREAS, Mayor Hogsett and the Indianapolis City-County Council recognize the importance of working with the General Assembly to explore long-term solutions involving the state road funding formula and advocating for continued investment in the County’s key infrastructure, providing utility to all residents of Central Indiana; and

WHEREAS, Mayor Hogsett has proposed two major changes to the state's road funding task force: a conversion to a road funding formula based on the number of vehicle miles traveled on a road and the merging of the Community Crossings grant program with the local distribution of the Motor Vehicle Highway
Account; now, therefore:

BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA:

SECTION 1. The Indianapolis City-County Council recognizes the efforts of the men and women of the
Department of Public Works, local Laborers, and the City’s engineering partners who over the last seven years have paved more than 1,250 lane-miles, strip-patched nearly 1,000 lane-miles, built 103 miles of new sidewalks and 35 miles of new trails, and constructed more than 8,000 ADA-compliant curb ramps.

SECTION 2. The City-County Council reaffirms its commitment to identifying additional funding for local roads, building on the City’s $1.1 billion five-year capital improvement plan.

SECTION 3. The City-County Council expresses its steadfast support for Mayor Hogsett’s proposed changes to the road funding formula and calls on the Indiana General Assembly's road funding task force fo recommend long-term solutions that more equitably distribute gas tax dollars to Central Indiana.

SECTION 4. The Mayor is invited to join in this resolution by affixing his signature hereto.

SECTION 5. This resolution shall be in full force and effect upon adoption and compliance with IC 36-3-4- 14,

SPECIAL RESOLUTION RECORD 2023

[Page 2 of 3]
S.R. No. 32, 2023
Page 2

The foregoing was passed by the City-County Council this 10 day of July, 2023, at 8:01 p.m.

ATTEST:

ity-County Council

Yulonda Winfieid
Clerk, City-County Coun

Presented by me to the Mayor this 11" day of July, 2023

Yulonda Winfield
Clerk, City-County Council

Approved and signed by me this __/ Hh of July, 2023. xh

Joseph H. Hogsett, Mayor

STATE OF INDIANA, MARION COUNTY)
) SS:
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS )

|, Yulonda Winfield, Clerk of the City-County Council, indianapolis, Marion County, Indiana, do hereby certify

the above and foregoing is a full, true, and complete copy of Proposal No. 227, 2023, a Proposal for a

SPECIAL RESOLUTION passed by the City-County Council on the 10" day of July, 2023, by a unanimous

voice yote, and was retitled Special Resolution No. 32, 2023, which was signed by the Mayor on the
/ Athi Gay of July, 2023, and now remains on file and on record in my office.

/ 1.
WITNESS my hand and the official seal of the City of Indianapolis, Indiana, this q) day of July, 2023.

Yulonda Winfield
Clerk, City-County Council
(SEAL)

SPECIAL RESOLUTION RECORD 2023

[Page 3 of 3]
Indianapolis City - County Council
2020-2023
2020-2023

7/10/2023 8:01 PM

Proposal: PROP-23 227
Sponsor: OSILI, ADAMSON, POTTS
Action: Adopt
Committee: Whole

Ordinance: S.R. 32

- VOTED BY UNANIMOUS CONSENT -

Yea: 24 Nay: 0
Yea - 24
Adamson Cartino
Annee Dilk
Bain Evans-E
Barth Evans-J
Boots Graves
Brown Gray
Nay -0
Abstain - 0
Excused - 1
Ray

Excused - 0

Abstain: 0

Not Voting: 0

Hart
Jackson
Jones
Larrison
Lewis
Mascari

RCS# 1236

(PASSED)

Excused: 1

McCormick
Mowery
Oliver

Osili

Potts
Robinson
