[Page 1 of 4]
CITY-COUNTY GENERAL ORDINANCE NO. 27, 2025
Proposal No. 235, 2025

PROPOSAL FOR A GENERAL ORDINANCE to amend Chapter 291, Section 602 of the Revised Code of the Consolidated City of Indianapolis - Marion County to modify the definition of confidential employees.

BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA

SECTION 1. Chapter 291, Section 602 of the Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County is hereby amended adding the portions that are underlined and deleting the portions that are stricken through, to read as follows:

Sec. 291-602. Definitions.

As used in this article, the following terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section:

City means the employing authorities of Consolidated City of Indianapolis and Marion County.

Collective bargaining means to perform the mutual obligation of the employer, by its representatives, and the exclusive bargaining representative of employees in an appropriate bargaining unit to meet and negotiate in good faith at reasonable times and places with respect to terms and conditions of employment, and any subject covered by a collectively bargained agreement covering city employees on September 1, 2021, with the intention of reaching an agreement.

Confidential employee means any employee who:

(1) Works in the office of the Mayer mayor's administration;
(2) Works in the office of the city-county counc
(3) Works in the office of the corporation counsel;

(4) Works in the office of finance and management or its human resources division;
(

(

5) Is secretary to a department head, director, or elected official; or 6) Is the personal secretary of any supervisor, managerial, or confidential employee.

Employee means any active employee of the City of Indianapolis or Marion County, but the term employee does not include anyone who is:

(2) Aconfidential employee;

(3) Amanagerial employee;

(4) Asupervisor;

(5) An intermittent employee;

(6) Astudent employee;

(7) Atemporary employee;

(8) Amember of a board or commission;

(8) An idual in the custody of any law enforcement agency who is working in a program through such an agency;

(10) An attorney whose responsibilities include providing legal advice to the city or performing legal research for the city as a client;

(11) An individual who performs internal investigations;

(12) A member of the Indianapolis Fire Department, the Indianapolis Metropolitan Police
Department, or the Marion County Sheriffs Department who ahs less than one (1) year of employment with such department or agency; or

(13) An employee of the county treasurer, clerk, auditor, prosecutor, surveyor, assessor, recorder, or coroner unless the employee or group of employees is voluntarily recognized by the elected official holding said office.;or

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2025

[Page 2 of 4]
G.O. No. 27, 2025
Page 2

Employee organization means an organization:

(1) In which employees participate; and
(2) That exists for the purpose of representing employees in collective bargaining.

Exclusive bargaining representative and bargaining agent mean an employee organization chosen by employees in an appropriate bargaining unit pursuant to this article or recognized by the city as a representative of an appropriate bargaining unit before the adoption of this article.

Managerial employee means any individual who:

(1) Has responsibility for a unit or sub-unit of a division of an agency or department,

(2) Participates in the formulation of policy;

(3) Is significantly engaged in executive or management functions;

(4) Is charged with the responsibility of directing the implantation of management policies, procedures, or practices; or

(5) is involved in administration of collective bargaining agreements or human resources or personnel decisions, including, but not limited to, staffing, reductions, reorganizations, hiring, discipline, evaluations, pay, assignments, transfers, promotions, or demotions.

Supervisor means any individual who has authority to hire, transfer, suspend, layoff, recall, promote, demote, discharge, assign, reward or discipline other employees, or to adjust grievances, or effectively to recommend any such action. With respect to the Indianapolis Fire Department, “supervisor” includes all personnel at the rank of division chief or above. With respect to the
Indianapolis Mmetropolitan Ppolice Ddepartment, "supervisor’ includes all personnel with the rank of captain or above. With respect to the emergency communications division of the Mmetropolitan
Eemergency Sservices Aagency, “supervisor” includes all personnel at the rank of manager or above.

Temporary employee means an individual who is employed for not more than ninety (90) days.

Terms and conditions of employment means wages, hours, allowances, fringe benefits, facilities, equipment and other physical aspects of employment, personnel policies, and the voluntary payment of dues through payroll deduction.

SECTION 2. The express or implied repeal or amendment by this ordinance of any other ordinance or part of any other ordinance does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this ordinance. Thos rights, liabilities, and proceedings are continued, and penalties shall be imposed and enforced under the repealed or amended ordinance as if this ordinance had not been adopted.

SECTION 3. Should any provision (section, paragraph, sentence, clause, or any other portion) of this ordinance be declared by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any reasons, the remaining provision or provisions shall not be affected, if and only if such remaining provisions can, without the invalid provision or provisions, be given the effect intended by the Council in adopting this ordinance. To this end the provisions of this ordinance are severable.

SECTION 4. This ordinance shall be in effect from and after its passage by the Council and compliance with Ind. Code § 36-3-4-14.

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2025

[Page 3 of 4]
G.O. No. 27, 2025
Page 3

The foregoing was passed by the City-County Council this 8 day of September, 2025, at 7:24 p.m.

ATIEST: yi
Vop Osili
] ! p 36 ° President, City-County Council
Yulonda Winfield ¢

Clerk, City-County Council
Presented by me to the Mayor this 9th day of September, 2025

LYulorale. Bthefuulol

Yulonda Winfield
Clerk, City-County Council

Gre

Approved and signed by me this day of September, 2025.

> 7
Joseph H. Hogsett, Mayor
STATE OF INDIANA, MARION COUNTY)

) SS:
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS )

1, Yulonda Winfield, Clerk of the City-County Council, Indianapolis, Marion County, Indiana, do hereby certify the above and foregoing is a full, true, and complete copy of Proposal No. 235, 2025, a Proposal for a
GENERAL ORDINANCE passed by the City-County Council on the 8th day of September, 2025, by a vote of 25 YEAS and 0 NAYS, and was retitled General Ordinance No. 27, 2025, which was signed by the Mayor on the day of September, 2025, and now remains on file and on record in my office.

WITNESS my hand and the official seal of the City of indianapolis, Indiana, this Ga. day of September, 2025.

Yulonda Winfield ruff
Clerk, City-County Council

(SEAL)

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2025

[Page 4 of 4]
Indianapolis City - County Council RCS# 848

2020-2023
2024-2027
9/8/2025 7:24 PM
Proposal: PROP-25 235 Ordinance: G.O. 27 (PASSED)
Sponsor: OSILI, JONES
Action: Adopt
Committee: Admin and Fin
Yea: 25 Nay: 0 Abstain: 0 Not Voting: 0 Excused: 0
Yea - 25
Allen Graves Mowery
Annee Carlino Hart Nielsen
Bain Delaney Jones Osili
Barth Dilk Lewis Perkins
Boots Evans Mascari Roberts
Brown-A Gibson McCormick Robinson
Brown-J
Nay - 0
Abstain - 0
Not Voting - 0

Excused - 0
