[Page 1 of 16]
CITY-COUNTY GENERAL ORDINANCE NO. 38, 2025
Proposal No. 239, 2025

A PROPOSAL FOR A GENERAL ORDINANCE to amend various sections of the Revised Code of the
Consolidated City and County fo reflect fee, penalty, and policy changes regarding enforcement and permitting within the Department of Business and Neighborhood Services

BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA:

SECTION 1. The Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County is hereby amended by adding the sections that are underlined and deleting the sections that have been stricken-through to read as follows:

Sec. 103-52. - Schedule of Code provisions and penalties.

The following Code (or ordinance) provisions and their respective civil penalties are designated for enforcement through the ordinance violations bureau:

1730-505 30.00
[740-1005.A..1, [Sign Violation—First-offense in a-calendar year 100.00 740-1005 A" 2. Work withoutJmprovement Location Permit —-First offense in a calendar year 250.00 740-1005, A.3. unk: Trash; Debris (JTD) First offense in a ‘calendar year 400.00 740-1005:A, 4: Inoperable Vehicle/Vehicle Parts —First offense in a calendar year 400.00) 740-1005 A.5. |Commercial Vehicle Parking-- First offense in.a calendar year 325.00
Z40-1005°'A:6 _ |illegal-Display-—First offense ina calendar year 50.00) 740-1005 A.7 _\Non-Permitted Use-- First offense ina Calendar year 325.00 740-1005 A8 [Development Standards --First offense in a calendar year 4100.00
[740-1005 A. 9 Petition Violation= First offense in a calendar year 325.00)

Sec. 131-501. - Schedule of license and permit fees.

The board of business and neighborhood services shal! have the power to establish the amount of fees by regulation as granted in section 226-204 of the Code. The following maximum allowed fees are established for their respective licenses and permits issued by the city or county:

Code Section License or Permit Maximum Allowed Fee

536-602 Construction or placement of, or For structures less than or equal to +,009 2.000 ladditions to, Class 2 structures fora {square feet, a fee of two-huadred-and-seventeen primary Class 2 structure \dollars-$247.08) seven hundred and fifty doliars

($750.00) ; for each additional 500 square feet, an
additional fee of bventy-three dollars-($23.00} one
hundred dollars ($100.00) shall apply. Square feet
calculation shall include the area of an attached
lgarage or carport and the area of a finished
basement or attic, but exclude the area of an
unfinished basement or attic

536-602 ‘Accessory Class 2 structure IFor-accessory-structures tess-than-orequal-to 200 lappurtenant to a primary Class 2 jsquare-teet-afee_offorty-two-dollars ($42.00). For structure laccessory: structures greater than-or equal to:200

square feet’and jess than:or equal.to.1,000 square
feet,'a fee of one-hundred-ninety-three-dollars
($493.00) three hundred dollars ($300.00); for
leach additional 500 square feet, an additional fee

lof bventy-three-detlars ($23.00) twenty-five dollars
($25.00) shall apply

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2025

[Page 2 of 16]
G.O. No. 38, 2025

Page 2

536-602 Addition and:simultaneous For structures less.than:or equal to 1,000 square remodeling; alteration,.or repair. of feet, a fee of two-hundred and fifty dollars laccessory Class 2 structures K$250.00). for each additional 500.square feet, an

additional fee twenty-five ($25.00) shall apply

536-602 Construction or placement of, or For structures less than or equal to 2,500 square ladditions to, Class 1 structures feet, a fee of sh hundred-ninety-seven-dollars

K$697.00) one thousand dollars ($71,000); for each
ladditional 1,000 square feet, an additional fee of
Forty-two-dollars- ($42.00) one hundred and fi
dollars ($150.00) shall apply

936-603 Remodeling, alteration, or repair of _ |For structures less than or equal to 1,000 square
Class 2 structures; provided, however,feet, a fee of ene-hundred-ffty_nine-doliars ithat when remodeling, alteration, or {$469.09} two:hundred dollars ($200:00); for each repair of a Class 2 structure is additional 500 square feet, an additional fee of laccomplished at the same time as an |thity-nine-dollars ($39.00) fi addition to an existing structure, a ishall:apply
single permit fee shall be determined
laccording to section 536-602

536-603 Addition and simultaneous For'structures less than:or equal:to:1,000.square remodeling, alteration, or repair of feet: a fee of four hundred dollars ($400.00); for lprimary Class.2 structures lgach additional 500 square feet, an additional fee

of fifty-dollars ($50.00) shall apply

536-603 Remodeling, alteration, or repair of _ |For structures less than or equal to 2,890 999
Class 1 structures square feet, a fee of six-hundred-rinety-seven

dollars ($697.00) three hundred and: fifty: dollars
\$350:00): for’siructures equal-to.or greater than
1,000 ‘square feet,: but are ‘less than:2,500. square
feet, a fee.of seven hundred and fifty dollars
($750.00), each additional 1,000 square feet, an
additional fee of ferty-bve-dollars ($42.00) one
hundred:and fifty dollars ($150.00) shall apply

536-609 Administrative fee $215.00 $250.00

536-612 General construction permit, where {$470.00 $175.00 for Class 1 structures; and
Inot specified by chapter 536 or 131 of $444.00 $150.00 for Class 2 structures this Code

536-619 Additional service fee for applying for $32,00-40:00 lall demolition, master, sign, structural,
land infrastructure related permits

536-620 Plan review of a new primary oF IEighty-five-dellars ($85.00) One ‘hundred and lascessory Class 2 structure. Review [seventy-five dollars ($175.00) for structures less includes appropriate structural and _ than 4,000 2;000 square feet. For each additional mechanical plan review 500 square feet an additional fee of fventy-one

dollars {$24.00} twenty-five dollars ($25.00)

536-620 Plan review of @ new'accessory Class (One hundred and -fifty. dollars ($150.00) for 2 structure. Review includes structures less than:1,000 square feet: For.each appropriate ‘structural and mechanical jadditional'500:‘square:feet an additional fee ‘of plan review twenty-five dollars ($25.00)

36-620 Plan review of a remodel for any One hundred and fifty dollars ($150.00) for
Class-2 structure or-addition with structures less.than 1,000 square feet. For each simultaneous remodel fora primary {additional'500‘square feet an additional fee’ of
Class 2-structure. Review-includes twenty-five dollars ($25.00) lappropriate structural and mechanical
plan review

536-620 Plan- review of an addition-with One ‘hundred dollars ($100.00) for structures less simultaneous remodel for'an Ithan:1,.000 square feet. For each additional'500 laccessory: Class'2 structure lsquare feet an additional fee of twenty-five dollars

($25:00)

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2025

[Page 3 of 16]
G.O. No. 38, 2025
Page 3

536-620

Plan review of Class 1 structures.

645-579

Encroachment

$360.00 For residential encroachments, a fee of

'$500.to be renewed: every 20.years;for a non-

residential attachment:encroachment; a fee of

$500 to be renewed every 20 years; for a sidewalk

café. encroachment, a fee ‘of $1,000. to: be renewed

levery:5 years: for.a:non

-residential installation

lencroachment; a fee of $5,000 to:-be renewed

every.5 years

Sec. 131-502. -

Schedule of inspection fees.

The following fees are established for their respective inspections conducted by the city or county:

Code Section Inspection Fee
536-612 General construction inspection, where not specified $154.00 by chapters 536 or 131 of this Code
536-612 IReinspection fee $175.00
536-617 [Accelerated inspection option for a same day inspection for $232.00)
Class 2-structutes L
536-617 [Accelerated inspection option for a next day inspection for $187.00
IClass:2 structures
536-617 (Accelerated inspection option for a next day inspection at a $245.00) scheduled time for Class ‘2 structures
536-6417 Accelerated inspection option for a weekday after 4:30 p.m. or $348.00 eekend inspection for.Class.2 structures
536-617. Accelerated: inspection option for a:same day inspection for _ $750 HOUFS anc
Class: structures $200 for hour alte
536-617. |Accelerated: inspection option for:a next day-inspection for $300 for
Class’ structures 10 for each bi
536-647. Accelerated ‘inspection option for a next day inspection ata $500 for? fou scheduled time for Class 1 structures S150 for each
936-617 lAccelerated inspection option for a weekday after 4:30 p.m."or ¥é :
weekend inspection for Class 1 structures $250 foi lOUE atte 536-705 (Violation of. a stop-work-order (When --vioiating “a: stop:
lwork order involved with. al
Class 2: structure, a fee of
two -hundred = and .._fifty|
dollars’ ($250.00); -when|
\Wiolation a stop-work'orden
involved: with a Class 4
structure, a fee of. seven|
hundred and fifty dollars!
($750.00)
Sec. 536-201. - When building permits required; enforcement.

(a) Permit required. Except for construction specified in subsections (b) and

(c), it shail be unlawful for

a person, partnership or corporation to engage in any construction or demolition or removal of structures unless a written building permit issued by the division of construction and business services describing the activity has been obtained by and is in force relative to the person, partnership or corporation that is actually accomplishing, supervising accomplishment or is contractually responsible for accomplishment of the

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2025

[Page 4 of 16]
G.O. No. 38, 2025
Page 4

construction allowed by the building permit. A violation of this section is subject to the enforcement procedures and penalties provided in section 103-3 of this Code; provided, however, the fine imposed for such violation shall not be less than one hundred dollars ($100.00), and each day that an offense continues shall constitute a separate violation. The controller shall cause any fines collected under this section to be deposited into an account for the use and benefit of the department of business and neighborhood services.

(b) Exemptions for one- and two-family dwellings. With respect to Class 2 structures, the permit specified in subsection (a) shall not be required for:

(1) Replacement of exterior prime doors and windows (limited to like for like in a wall opening of the

same dimensions that does not reduce the egress required by code provision existing at the time

ing was constructed) if performed by a listed contractor, thatcomplies-with-the notice-and

a Additionally, a person who owns or is purchasing a

Class 2 structure on contract with intention to utilize the property for his or her own occupancy may likewise replace without permit prime doors and windows in such structure;

(2) Replacement of an existing roof if performed by a listed contractor that-conmplies_withthe-notice ora -person who: owns of is purchasing a.Class 2

structure on contract with the intention to utilize.the property for his or her own occupancy; and that construction does not involve:

a. Achange in roof configuration;

b. A change in type of roof covering (e.g., tile roofing replacing asphalt shingles) that would increase the dead load on the structure,

c. The replacement of basic structural members that support the roof (e.g., replacement of a rafter or more than one hundred twenty-eight (128) feet of decking); or

d. The installation of heat-applied roofing material;

(3) installation and id replacement of exterior sing if Se ates by a listed contractor thatcemplies with of a person who owns or is

own occupancy ma
of existing sheathing, provided that the total siding application i is performed by the ¢ owner or or contract purchaser assisted only by noncompensated volunteers;

(4) | Ordinary maintenance and repair of a structure where the work does not reduce performance or create additional health or safety risks as defined in section 536-111(i);

(5) Installation and replacement of fixtures attached to the walls or floors such as cupboards, cabinets, shelving, railings, tracks, wall and floor coverings, and doors;

(6) _ Installation, maintenance and repair of storm windows and other exterior windows designed and used as protection against severe weather,

(7) Exterior repair or renovation of a masonry chimney above the roof line that does not reduce the size of the flue opening;

(8) | Gutter replacement or installation,

(9) Attachment of window awnings to exterior walls where the awnings project not more than forty- eight (48) inches from any wall,

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2025

[Page 5 of 16]
(10)

(11)

(12)

(13)

(14)

(15)

(16)

(17)

(18)

(19)

(20)

(21)

(22)

(23)

(24)

(25)

(26)

G.O. No. 38, 2025
Page 5

Installation of thermal insulation;

Installation of additional non-load bearing walls that do not result in the creation of sleeping rooms; provided however, permits are required (except as otherwise specifically exempted by provisions of this section) for electrical, heating and cooling, or plumbing work;

Replacement of an attic fan, bathroom exhaust fan, range hood exhaust fan or whole house fan;

Erection or installation of a fence or structural barrier in conformance with zoning requirements and any necessary certificates of appropriateness in a historic district,

Erection or installation of an aboveground swimming pool thirty (30) inches or less deep and fifteen (15) feet or less at its widest points;

Erection or installation of a deck where:

a. No part of the floor is more than thirty (30) inches above finished grade; and b. There is compliance with the assessor notification requirements of section 536-215;

Erection of retaining walls that are not over four (4) feet in height measured from the lowest finished grade to the top of the wail, unless the walls are supporting a surcharge;

Erection of a structure that spans two hundred (200) one-hundred-twenty-{120} square feet or less of base area, is.one'story, i ight; is not placed on or attached to a permanent foundation and does not contain an electrical power distribution system, heating system, space heating equipment, cooling system, or space cooling equipment,

Ordinary maintenance and repair of building equipment where the work does not reduce performance or create additional safety or health risks;

Installation of a single-phase electric circuit not exceeding sixty (60) amperes at a nominal 120/240 volts that involves the installation, modemization, replacement, service or repair of a heating system, space heating equipment, cooling system, space cooling equipment, a water heater or a food waste disposer for which a building permit has been issued;

Installation of household appliances such as window air conditioners, refrigerators, refrigerators with automatic icemakers, ranges, microwave ovens, clothes washers, clothes dryers, dishwashers, food waste disposers and trash compactors when such installation does not include the installation of an electrical circuit;

Replacement in kind of piping in a plumbing system when the replacement piping meets the same performance specifications and has the same capacity as the piping being replaced and not more than twenty (20) percent of all piping in the structure is replaced;

Replacement of appliances, fixtures, traps and valves in a plumbing system;

Replacement of a water heater with one (1) that is identical as to venting arrangement and type of fuel or energy input;

Extension of heating or cooling duct work;

Placement of a manufactured home not on a permanent foundation in a manufactured home park licensed by the Indiana State Department of Health,

Initial connection or reconnection of plumbing to a manufactured home not placed on a

permanent foundation located in a manufactured home park licensed by the Indiana State
Department of Health;

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2025

[Page 6 of 16]
(27)

(28)

(29)

G.O. No. 38, 2025
Page 6

Erection of real-estate signs advertising-real estate-for-sale-or-for-+rent in conformance with the

size limitations of the zoning ordinance governing signs; or
Connection, provision or use of temporary electrical power for on-site construction—or,

Repair: or: replacement ; ofan: electrical ‘meter. base. ‘riser, and weather. head ‘where’ :such equipments not relocated'or upgraded (such.as upgrading from.a.100 amp'service toa 200 amp

service):

(c) Exemptions for commercial construction. With respect to Class 1 structures, permits specified in subsection (a) shall not be required for:

(1)

(2)

(3)

(8)

(10)

(11)

(12)
(13)

(14)

Ordinary maintenance and repair of a structure where the work does not reduce performance or create additional safety or health risks as defined in section 536-111(i);

Installation, maintenance and repair of storm windows and other exterior windows designed and used as protection against severe weather;

Attachment of window awnings to exterior walls where the awnings project not more than forty- eight (48) inches from any wall;

Painting, papering and similar finish work;

Installation of movable cases, counters and partitions not over sixty-nine (69) inches high;

Erection or installation of temporary motion picture, television and theater stage sets and scenery;
Installation of thermal insulation;

Erection or installation of a fence or structural barrier in conformance with zoning requirements and any necessary certificates of appropriateness in a historic district;

Erection or installation of an aboveground swimming pool thirty (30) inches or less deep and fifteen (15) feet or less at its widest points;

Erection or installation of platforms not more than thirty (30) inches above grade and not over any basement or story below;

Installation of water tanks supported directly upon grade if the capacity does not exceed five thousand (5,000) gallons and the ratio of height to diameter or width does not exceed two (2) to one (1);

Erection of oil derricks;

Erection of retaining walls that are not over four (4) feet in height measured from the lowest finished grade to the top of the wall, unless the walls are supporting a surcharge or used as a dike to impound flammable or combustible liquids or products that pose a health or safety risk (e.g., corrosives, oxidizers, poisons);

Erection of a structure that spans two hundred:(200) ene-hundred-twenty-(420) square feet or

less of base area, is less than fifteen (15) feet in height, is not placed on or attached to a permanent foundation and does not contain an electrical power distribution system, heating system, space heating equipment, cooling system, or space cooling equipment;

Erection of any sign in conformance with zoning requirements:

Ordinary maintenance and repair of building equipment where the work does not reduce performance or create additional safety or health risks;

Connection, provisions or use of temporary electrical power for on-site construction;
GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2025

[Page 7 of 16]
G.O. No. 38, 2025
Page 7

(18) Installation of household appliance such as window air conditioners, refrigerators, refrigerators ith automatic icemakers, ranges, microwave ovens, clothes washers, clothes dryers, dishwashers, food waste disposers and trash compactors in apartment buildings when such installation does not include the installation of an electrical circuit;

(19) Replacement in kind of piping in a plumbing system when the replacement piping meets the same performance specifications and has the same capacity as the piping being replaced and not more than twenty (20) percent of the piping in an area occupied by a single tenant in the structure is replaced;

(20) Replacement of appliances, fixtures, traps and valves in a plumbing system; or

(21) Replacement of a water heater with one (1) that is identical as to venting arrangement and type of fuel or energy input.

(22) = Addition-or alteration of up to twenty-(20) sprinkler heads in ‘existing wet pipe'systems for-light or ordinary. hazard:designed. fire suppression systems;

(23) Replacement of fire alarm controlpanels. annunciators. ‘notification appliance circuit panels and other-similar equipment where:

a. “The:replacement:panel.or equipments ‘installed:in:the-same location as the previous panel

or-equipment.

be The functionality ‘of the replacement:panel or equipment is the same as the previous panel of equipment (the performance of the system shall not be reduced).

c. The UE listing of the equipment has-not.been ‘compromised:

(24). Replacement of smoke ‘detectors; ‘heat detectors, HVAC ‘duct detectors, manual pull stations, notification devices,:and other. similar devices where:

a. The replacement devices are installed in the same:location as the previous devices.

b.. The ‘functionality ofthe replacement devices’ is ‘the same “asthe previous devices (the performance of the system shall not be reduced).

¢." The UL listing of the devices has ‘not been‘compromised:

(25) Repair or ‘replacement of ‘an ‘electrical ‘meter-base, ‘riser, and: weather head: where.such equipment is not relocated-or upgraded (such as upgrading from a\100 amp service to a.200 amp service).

(d) Preservation districts. Provisions in subsection (b) or (c) that exempt those engaged in certain construction from the obligation to secure a building permit do not affect the possible obligation to secure a certificate of appropriateness for construction either in an historic area designated by the Indianapolis
Historic Preservation Commission or in the Meridian Street Preservation District designated by the Indiana
Code. While a building permit may not be required, a certificate of appropriateness from the Indianapolis
Historic Preservation Commission or the Meridian Street Preservation Commission may be required in such an area.

(e) Flood control districts. Provisions in subsection (b) or (c) that exempt those engaged in certain construction from the obligation to secure a building permit do not affect the possible obligation to secure a floodplain development permit for construction in the flood control districts as designated by Chapter 742,
Article II, of the Code. While a building permit may not be required, a floodplain development permit may be required in such areas.

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2025

[Page 8 of 16]
G.O. No. 38, 2025
Page 8

foresee

eee

Sec. 536-705. - Stop-work order.

Whenever the administrator as assigned by the deputy director of the division of construction and business services or the administrator's authorized representative discovers the existence of any of the circumstances listed below, he or she is empowered to issue an order requiring the suspension of the pertinent construction. The stop-work order shall be in writing and shall state to which construction it is applicable and the reason for its issuance. The stop-work order shall be posted on the property in a conspicuous place and, if conveniently possible, shall be given to the person doing the construction and to the owner of the property or his or her agent. The stop-work order shall state the conditions under which construction may be resumed.

(1) Construction is proceeding in an unsafe manner, including, by way of example and not of limitation, in violation of any standard set forth in this chapter or any state rule pertaining to safety during construction;

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2025

[Page 9 of 16]
G.O, No. 38, 2025
Page 9

(2) Construction is occurring in violation of building standards and procedures or in such a manner that if construction is allowed to proceed, there is a reasonable probability that it will be substantially difficult to correct the violation;

(3) Construction has been accomplished in violation of building standards and procedures and a period of time that is one-half (%4) the time period in which construction could be completed, but no longer than fifteen (15) calendar days has elapsed since written notice of the violation or noncompliance was either posted on the property in a conspicuous place or given to the person doing the construction, without the violation or noncompliance being corrected;

(4) Construction for which a building permit is required is proceeding without a building permit being in force; in such an instance, the stop-work order shall indicate that the effect of the order terminates if the required building permit is obtained;

(5) Construction for which a building permit was issued more than thirty (30) days earlier is proceeding without there being in force applicable permits and approvals required by governmental units (including, but not limited to, Indianapolis metropolitan police department, Indianapolis fire department, department of code enforcement, department of public works, Health and Hospital
Corporation of Marion County, state department of health, state department of natural resources, state highway department) for compliance with standards for air quality, drainage, flood control, fire safety, vehicular access, and waste treatment and disposal on the real estate on which the structure is located; in such an instance, the stop-work order shall indicate that the order is applicable to ail construction allowed by the building permit and that the effect of the order terminates if the required permits and approvals are obtained; or

(6) Construction is occurring for which a certificate of appropriateness from the Indianapolis Historic
Preservation Commission is required pursuant to IC 48-4-22-4 36-7-11.1 et seq., without a certificate of appropriateness being in force; in such an instance, the stop-work order shall indicate that the effect of the order terminates if the required certificate of appropriateness is obtained.

This sanction shall in no way limit the operation of penalties provided elsewhere in this chapter._The fee for violating a-stop-work order shall.be provided in section 131-502 of this Code:

Sec. 537-1. - Definitions.

Hearing authority-means -a’ person or. persons ‘designated.as ‘such by-the by the: director of the départment-of business and neighborhood:services.. An employee of the enforcement authority may. not be designated as the hearing authority.

Owner means a person with any right in real property, including a fee interest, a life estate interest, a future interest. a mortgage interést,’a lien-as evidenced by:a certificate of sale issued.under IC 6-1.1:24, or an equitable interest of a contract purchaser that.(1) may be affected_in a substantial: way. by actions authorized-by this chapter; and (2) is held-by'a person whose identity and address may be determined from:
(A)-an instrument:recorded ‘in: (i)'the Marion colinty recorder’s office::or (il) in the case ofa lien evidenced by: a certificate “of “sale.-issuéd “under * “IC6-1,1-24." the Marion.“ county: auditor's “ office.

Unsafe ‘means a'structure or premises’as defined in 1C:36-7-9.

Sec. 537-4. - Legislative findings.

Itis hereby found that there exists, and may exist in the future, vacant buildings which have remained continuously vacant, or which have not been properly maintained and which, because of their deteriorated condition or:continuous: vacancy, constitute a significant threat to the public health, safety and social well- being. The Indiana General Assembly, in enacting IC 36-7-9-4.5 and IG 36-7-36, found that such buildings create a serious, substantial problem and encouraged local governmental bodies to adopt appropriate vacancy, maintenance; and repair standards so that vigorous and disciplined action can be taken to ensure that vacant buildings are properly maintained and repaired.

Sec. 537-5, - Scope.
GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2025

[Page 10 of 16]
G.O. No. 38, 2025
Page 10

These standards shall apply to the vacancy, maintenance, repair, and boarding of vacant structures located in the county. These standards shall in no way limit the types of action the division of property and land use services is authorized to take under IC 36-7-9-1 and/or JG 36-7-36 et seq. relative to the continual vacancy or exterior condition of unsafe or vacant buildings, the interior of unsafe or vacant buildings, or the premises on which vacant or unsafe buildings are located.

Sec. 537-6. - Public nuisance.

Any structure which fails to meet the minimum standards set forth herein shall be deemed a public nuisance and subject to remedial action under IC 36-7-9-1 and/or1C-36-7-36 et seq.

Sec. 537-7, - Remedial action.

Orders or-pertions-of orders issued by the division under IC 36-7-9-6 requiring an owner to bring Ais erher their property into compliance with these standards shail be complied with by the time specified in the order, or as extended by the hearing authority acting under IC 36-7-9-7. Persons issued.a notice by the division under IC.36-7-36 Shall-address the continuous vacancy as required by these standards by the time specified in the notice. or as extended by the division. However, an order, other than an order requiring immediate boarding, shall provide the owner at least thirty-three (33) days from the mailing of the order to comply or to prepare for an administrative hearing.

ARTICLE IV. — Continuous Vacanc

Sec. 537-43 —-Continuous vacancy: civil penalties,

(A): An-owner.of.a property that remains 'a vacant'structure for at least ninety (90) consecutive calendar days may be liable for-a civil penalty in the amount of five hundred-dollars ($500) per vacant structure ‘not to exceed five thousand dollars ($5,000) per structure per year, ‘unless:

(1) documentation ‘has been filed and approved ‘by ‘the. division ‘that indicates .the owner's. intent to
_ eliminate the vacant'structure:status of the property: and

(2): the owner is current on-aill property taxes and special assessments; and

(3) atleast one’ (1) of the following applies:

(a) ‘The Stricture .is the subject.of-a valid building permit for repair or rehabilitation and the owner is proceeding diligently and in good faith to:complete the repair or rehabilitation of the structure as-defined-in the enforcement order,

(b):-The structure.is:

i. “maintained in compliance with:IC 36-7-36, and
ii: “actively being offered ‘for-sale; lease, or rent.

(c) ‘The owner can demonstrate. that the owner-made a diligent-and good faith effort to implement actions approved: by the enforcement authority;

The enforcement. authority may develop policies which determine: property. eligibility. more specifically, though within the confines of what is.eligible under this section.

(B) If the structure continues. to remain'a vacant structure: beyond :the initial _ninety:(90) days-and the owner:does not meet the exceptions set forth in subsection (A), the enforcement authority may continue to asséss penalties each year on each'structure.in the following amounts:

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2025

[Page 11 of 16]
G.O, No. 38, 2025
Page 11

(1) One thousand: dollars ($1,000). forthe second ninety -(90): calendar day period each structure temains 4.vacant stricture or. an abandoned structure.

(2) One. thousand five ‘hundred ‘dollars ($1,500). for the third ninety (90) calendar day: period each
Structure.remains a vacant structure or.an abandoned structure.

(3) “Two -thousand dollars ($2,000) for the fourth-and each subsequent ninety -(90)-calendar day period thereafter-each structure remains a vacant structure.or-an abandoned structure.

(C) If-full payment of a civil penalty assessed under. this.articie is not made less than thirty:(30).days after notice ‘of civil penalty: assessment. is sent, the ‘division. may certify to the’ county auditor the owners name.° the description of the unsafe premises, ‘as shown by the records of the county auditor, and ‘the amount’ ofthe ‘delinquent payment: The county auditor shail.place the total amount.Certified.on the ‘tax duplicate for thé affected property as a special-assessment. The total amount, including accrued ‘interest shall be collected ‘as delinquent taxes. are ‘collected. An’amount.collected: under this section, after:all.other taxes have been-collected and: disbursed: shall: be disbursed to ‘the unsafe building fund. :A-civil_ penalty issued under.this article shall -be assessed as a special assessment.on the tax duplicate and:collected_in the’sarne manner.as costs under IC'36-7-9-13 or'lC 36-7-9-13.5. The amount of the civil penaity or fine that is collected shall bé deposited inthe unsafe building fund.

Sec: §37-44 Notice of continuous vacancy; contents; manner-of notice; recordin

(A): Notice of continuous vacancy must be given. to the owner. by:

(1). sending by first-class mail a:copy of the notice or statement to the last known address of the person to be notified:

(2)-séending-a-copy of the-notice.or-statement_by registered or certified mail to the residence or place of: business or employment: of the person. to ‘be ‘notified, with return réceipt requested;

(3) -recording:the notice in the office of the ‘county recorder; or

(4). delivering-a copy ofthe notice ‘or:statement personally to the person :to.be:notified.

tha notice.described in-subdivision (1) is returned tundelivered.:a copy of the notice of statement: must_be given.in- accordance: with subdivision |(2);-(3), or (4). The enforcement: authority may, for the sake of convenience, issue notice under subsection (3) at the same time notice is attempted under any ofthe other subsections...

(B): Notice of continuous: vacancy must contain the following:

(1) <The name of the person:to whom ‘the notice is. issued.

(2)-The legal description or address of the premises that'are subject of the.notice.

(3): The action that the notice requires to avoid future penaities.

(4) “The period of time in which the action is required to avoid future penalties, measured from the time when:the notice was given:

(5) A’statement-briefly indicating what penalties ‘may. be assessed. by the enforcement ‘authority if required action is notitaken:

(6). -A’statement indicating the obligation created by subsections (C),(D), and (E).

(C) Once the notice is-issued., it'shall remain valid and enforceable until the requirements set forth in
Sec::537-43(A) ‘are met: however, the civil perialty: amount.assessed in“a one (1): year period‘shall_not exceed the limits set forth in.this articie.

(D) A person who takes.an.interest in-a vacant premises that is the subject ofa notice recorded inthe office-of the county recorder under this article:takes that interest subject to the:notice, including-any unpaid and future civil penalties. issued assessed under this chapter, and in such a manner that notice requirements set forth: in this-article-are:satisfied:-

(E) Aperson who has been issued a: notice relative toa vacant premises and the continuous vacancy status has not been removed:

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2025

[Page 12 of 16]
G.O. No. 38, 2025
Page 12

(1) must’ supply. full-information regarding the: notice’to.a person “who takes or agrees. to -take a substantial: property interest in the vacant premises before transferring or agreeing to transfer that interest,'and

(2). must, within five (5):days after: transferring or agreeing to transfer’a substantial property interest in the vacant premises, supply the enforcement authority with written copies: of:

a. the :full- name; address, and telephone number ofthe ‘person: faking a. substantial: property.
interest in the vacant.premises; and

b.-the legal instrument under which the transfer or agreement to transfer the substantial property interest is accomplished:

Sec. 537-45 Removal of continuous vacancy status; civil penalty reduction

(A) The division shall establish processes and procedures by which ‘an owner may Tequesta review of the continuous vacancy. status and submit-evidence that they meet-the exceptions. set forth. in this article.
Upon'receipt of a properly submitted request; no additional civil penaities shail be assessed until the division has issued its decision and ‘the time ‘allowed to request an informal hearing under this section has: passed.
if an informal hearing is properly tequested under this:section, no additional civil-penalties shall be assessed until the division has issued its hearing decision; and the decision of the director, or their designee, shall be final. The-division may deny additional requests for reviews submitted within 90 days. ofa decision being issuied: and/or. which are™.not submitted in “accordance “with ‘division’s “established processes “and

procedures:

(B) Jf. the: division ‘determines ‘the evidence provided is ‘sufficient: to. prove:the exceptions have been met; the status of continuotis vacancy status shall: be removed; ‘however,.if the division determines there-is not sufficient evidence, they may request the:owner to submit :additional:documentation:and/or take action reasonably:required to satisfy the exceptions: If the owner does not provide all:additional documentation and/or-complete-an action: requested by the division within.10 days ofthe request -being sent, the division may. deny. the- request for: removal of continuous vacancy. status. If the division denies. the removal_of continuous vacancy. status: the owner may request’ in’ writing, within:10 ‘days of the denial.being sent,'an informal ‘hearing ‘before ‘the . director. of ‘the division: of business: and ‘neighborhood ‘services, “or their designee; to dispute the continuous vacancy status.

(C). The division may establish'a process by which eligible owners may, upon removal of the continuous vacancy Status, bé granted ‘a reduction inthe civil penalty amounts assessed while in continuous vacancy status. The division may. institute additional reasonable ‘and.consistently: applied ‘eligibility, requirements, however. at minimum, an eligible: owner must-be the owner at the time-the continuous vacancy Status was remdved'and the property must be in compliance with the exterior maintenance standards set forth in-Article
Ib

Sec. 561-263. - Stop-work order.

(a) Whenever the administrator as assigned by the deputy director of the division of construction and business services or his or her authorized representative discovers the existence of any of the circumstances listed below, he or she is empowered to issue an order requiring the suspension of all construction activities. The stop-work order shall be in writing and shall state to what construction activities it is applicable and the reason for its issuance. One (1) copy of the stop-work order shall be posted on the property in a conspicuous place and one (1) copy shall be delivered to the permit applicant, and if conveniently possible to the person performing the construction activities and to the owner of the property or his or her agent. The stop-work order shall state the conditions under which construction activities may be resumed. A stop-work order shall be issued if:

(1) Land alteration is proceeding in an unsafe manner,

(2) Land alteration is occurring in violation of a drainage requirement and in such manner that if land alteration is allowed to proceed, there is a probability that it will be substantially difficult to correct the violation;

(3) Land alteration has been accomplished in violation of a drainage requirement and a period of time that is one-half (4) the time period in which land alteration could be completed, but no longer than
GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2025

[Page 13 of 16]
G.O. No. 38, 2025
Page 13

fifteen (15) calendar days has elapsed since written notice of the violation or noncompliance was either posted on the property in a conspicuous place or given to the person doing the land alteration, without the violation or noncompliance being corrected;

(4) Land alteration for which a drainage permit is required is proceeding without a drainage permit being in force. In such an instance, the stop-work order shall indicate that the effect of the order terminates when the required drainage permit is obtained;

(5) Construction activity is proceeding without the appropriate installation and maintenance of pollution prevention controls, including but not limited to, erosion and sediment controls, concrete and cementitious washout containment and trash containment; or

(6) Construction activity that results in prohibited discharges to a municipal separate storm sewer, combined sewer or surface water body defined as an environmental public nuisance by section 575-2 of this Code.

(b) This sanction shall in no way limit the operation of penalties provided elsewhere in this chapter.

(c): cThe-fee for violating a stop-work order shall be provided in section 1341-501: of this Code.

Sec. 601-2. - Deposit of waste materials on premises of another, enforcement.

(a) It shall be untawful for any person to deposit or place upon real estate owned by another any solid waste without the approval of the owner or lessee of such real estate.

(b) Whenever any person shall be charged with a violation of this section, it shall be a sufficient allegation of a prima facie offense to state that such person deposited the solid waste described in subsection (a) upon property of which he or she was not then the owner or lessee. It shall be a matter of affirmative defense for the person to show that he or she had permission of the owner or lessee to so deposit such solid waste, if such was the case.

(c) It shall be unlawful for a generator of solid waste to transfer such solid waste to any other person who subsequently disposes of it in violation of subsection (a). This subsection shall not apply to a generator who either transfers solid waste to a person licensed by the city at the time of transfer to haul solid waste or who sets out residential solid waste on a regularly scheduled collection day according to the rules and regulations for the preparation, set-out and collection of solid waste promulgated by the department of public works.

(1) A person licensed by the city to haul solid waste who collects solid waste in a noncommercia vehicle shall provide a receipt for a transaction wherein he or she agrees to haul the solid waste of another, except as provided in subsection (c)(3). The licensed hauler collecting solid waste in a noncommercial vehicle shall affix to such receipt a sticker bearing his or her license number.

(2) Stickers bearing the license number of a licensed hauler collecting solid waste in a noncommercial vehicle shall be made available through the division of construction and business services.

(3) A licensed hauler collecting solid waste in a noncommercial vehicle shall provide such a receipt for occasional or single transactions. A licensed hauler collecting solid waste in a noncommercia vehicle shall not be required to provide such receipts to customers receiving regularly scheduled services that are documented in the records of such hauler; provided, however, that a licensed hauler collecting solid waste in a noncommercial vehicle shall provide a receipt to a regular customer for a transaction outside the scope of regularly scheduled services.

(d) Any person who violates this section shall be punishable by a fine of not less than five hundred dollars ($500.00) and an order for such persons to reimburse each appropriate city department for its reasonable costs incurred in correcting conditions caused by the violation. In addition, the court may order that the vehicle used in the unlawful dumping, owned by the person, be impounded for a period not to exceed ninety (90) days.

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2025

[Page 14 of 16]
G.O. No. 38, 2025
Page 14

(e) Any person who violates this section by unlawfully dumping a hazardous waste as defined by the
Indiana Environmental Management Act, iC 13-7-1-1 et seq. and the regulations thereunder or the
Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, 42 U.S.C. 6901 et seq. and the regulations thereunder, shall be punishable by a fine of not less than five- hundred - dollars ($500.00) one thousand dollars ($1,000) and order for Its reasonable costs incurred in correcting conditions caused by the violation, and the court shall order that the vehicle used in the unlawful dumping, owned by the person, be impounded for a period of not less than ten (10) days and not greater than ninety (90) days.

(f) Enforcement of this chapter primarily shall be the responsibility of the division of property and land use services of the department of business and neighborhood services. All monies recovered by the city from enforcement actions brought under this section, exclusive of court costs, shall be allocated to the department of business and neighborhood services and shall be deemed a reimbursement to the department for its expenses in monitoring unlawful dumping and enforcing the provisions of this section.

SECTION 2. The expressed or implied repeal or amendment by this ordinance of any other ordinance or part of any other ordinance does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this ordinance. Those rights, liabilities, and proceedings are continued, and penalties shall be imposed and enforced under the repealed or amended ordinance as if this ordinance had not been adopted.

SECTION 3. Should any provision (section, paragraph, sentence, clause, or any other portion) of this ordinance be declared by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, the remaining provision or provisions shall not be affected, if and only if such remaining provisions can, without the invalid provision or provisions, be given the effect intended by the Council in adopting this ordinance. To this end the provisions of this ordinance are severable.

SECTION 4. This ordinance shall be in effect from and after #6 1026, by the Council

and compliance with Ind. Code § 36-3-4-14.

The foregoing was passed by the City-County Council this 6 day of October, 2025, at 7:28 p.m.

ATTEST:

VEE

Vop Osilt

. President, City-County Council
A udorat. Bthaftslol-

Yulonda Winfield
Clerk, City-County Council

Presented by me to the Mayor this 7th day of October, 2025

Lulora. BAhappalol

Yulonda Winfield
Clerk, City-County Council

Approved and signed by me this \ day of October, 2025.
0 pt . ef 7x

Joseph H. Hogsett, Mayor

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2025

[Page 15 of 16]
G.O. No. 38, 2025
Page 15

STATE OF INDIANA, MARION COUNTY)
) ss:
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS )

I, Yulonda Winfield, Clerk of the City-County Council, Indianapolis, Marion County, indiana, do hereby certify the above and foregoing is a full, true, and complete copy of Proposal No. 239, 2025, a Proposal for a
GENERAL ORDINANCE passed by the City-County Council on the 6th day of October, 2025, by a vote of 23 YEAS and 2 NAYS, and was retitled General Ordinance No. 38, 2025, which was signed by the Mayor onthe __\ ie \__ day of October, 2025, and now remains on file and on record in my office.

WITNESS my hand and the official seal of the City of Indianapolis, Indiana, this | um day of October, 2025.

Yulonda Winfield rufl
Clerk, City-County Council

(SEAL)

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2025

[Page 16 of 16]
Indianapolis City - County Council RCS# 889

2020-2023
2024-2027
10/6/2025 7:28 PM
Proposal: PROP-25 239 Ordinance: G.O. 38 (PASSED)
Sponsor: LEWIS
Action: Adopt
Committee: Metro. and Econ. Dev.
Yea: 23 Nay: 2 Abstain: 0 Not Voting: 0 Excused: 0
Yea - 23
Allen Cahill Graves Nielsen
Annee Carlino Jones Osi
Barth Delaney Lewis Perkins
Boots Dilk Mascari Roberts
Brown-A Evans McCormick Robinson
Brown-J Gibson Mowery
Nay - 2
Bain Hart
Abstain - 0
Not Voting - 0

Excused ~ 0
