[Page 1 of 3]
CITY-COUNTY SPECIAL RESOLUTION NO. 21, 2024
Proposal No. 246, 2024

PROPOSAL FOR A SPECIAL RESOLUTION to support the allocation in the 2025 City-County Budget of necessary costs needed to preserve urban forests in Indianapolis.

WHEREAS, living near green spaces is proven to make residents more physically active, have extended life spans, report reduced stress levels and greater overall well-being; and

WHEREAS, city trees, especially forests, cool summer heat and filter pollution in air and water, and

WHEREAS, urban forests are safe havens for sensitive plants and wildlife whi values; and

increasing property

WHEREAS, Indianapolis’ 4,300 forest areas (defined as one acre or more of trees) generate over $260 million a year in public benefits, including flood control, air and water quality improvements, higher property values, enhanced quality of life; and

WHEREAS, four percent of Indianapolis city land is used for parks and recreation, far less than the national median of 15%; and

WHEREAS, only 9 out of Marion County’s 59 square miles of urban forests are currently protected in the parks system; and

WHEREAS, Mayor Hogsett has signed on for Indianapolis to become a “10 Minute Walk city,” but only 36% of Indianapolis residents live within a 10-minute walk of a park; which is far below the national urban average; and

WHEREAS, plans such as Thrive Indianapolis and the White River Vision Plan-call for carbon mitigation, and the acquisition of forests as steps to make the city more resilient to the impacts of climate change; and -

WHEREAS, Marion County ratepayers have spent $2 ion on the Dig Indy project to address the city’s combined sewer overflow problem, and with concerns that climate change has created the need for an even bigger tunnel system, it is fiscally wise to preserve our urban forests as they are the best and least expensive way to absorb excessive stormwater run-off, and

WHEREAS, the indiana Forest Alliance’s “Forests for indy” campaign has initially identified certain priority forest areas in Indianapolis, estimated to be valued at up to six million dollars, that are at risk of commercial development; and

WHEREAS, the current owners of at least four significant urban forests all indicate a desire to sell these forests to the city for conservation; and

WHEREAS, time is of the essence for the city to acquire these properties before they are lost to development; and

WHEREAS, the City Council passed Special Resolution No. 34, 2022 (Proposal No. 397, 2022,)
Section 4, stating that the council supports “approaches to fund, acquire, and protect urban forests in
Indianapolis;” now, therefore:

BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA:

SECTION 1. The Indianapolis City-County Council hereby commits to supporting the development of a land acquisition, preservation and maintenance plan and timeline that includes investigating jocal, state, and federal funding sources, investigating how this plan fits into the Comprehensive Plan of the Parks
Department’s and the Comprehensive Plan of the Metropolitan Planning Organization (MPO), and investigating the additional resources needed to accomplish the goals of this plan to begin no later than the second quarter of 2025.

SPECIAL RESOLUTION RECORD 2024

[Page 2 of 3]
S.R. No. 21, 2024
Page 2

SECTION 2. The Indianapolis City-County Council commits fo reviewing the 2025 and future budgets for discretionary funding for equitably preserving, acquiring, and maintaining these urban forests as part of the city of Indianapolis’ parks system, and supports allocating funds in the 2025 and future budgets for such forest land acquisition purposes.

SECTION 3. This resolution shall be in effect from and after its passage by the Council and in compliance with Indiana Code § 36-3-4-14.

The foregoing was passed by the City-County Council this 8th day of July, 2024, at 7:43 p.m.

ATTEST: Oe

President, City-County Council
Yulonda Winfield

Clerk, City-County Council

STATE OF INDIANA, MARION COUNTY)
) Ss:
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS )

|, Yulonda Winfield, Clerk of the City-County Council, Indianapolis, Marion County, Indiana, do hereby certify the above and foregoing is a full, true, and complete copy of Proposal No. 246, 2024, a Proposal for a
SPECIAL RESOLUTION passed by the City-County Council on the 8th day of July, 2024, by a unanimous voice vote, and was retitled Special Resolution No. 21, 2024, which now remains on file and on record in my office.

WITNESS my hand and the official seal of the City of Indianapolis, Indiana, this 10" day of July, 2024.

Yulonda Winfield taf)
Clerk, City-County Council

(SEAL)

SPECIAL RESOLUTION RECORD 2024

[Page 3 of 3]
Indianapolis City - County Council RCS# 225
2020-2023
2024-2027

718/2024 7:43 PM

Proposal: PROP-24 246 Ordinance: S.R. 21 (PASSED)
Sponsor: EVANS, BOOTS, BROWN
Action: Adopt
Committee: Whole

- VOTED BY UNANIMOUS CONSENT -

Yea: 23 Nay: 0 Abstain: 0 Not Voting: 0 Excused: 2

Yea - 23
Allen Cahill Hart Nielsen
Annee Carlino Jones Osili
Bain Delaney Lewis Perkins
Barth Dilk Mascari Roberts
Boots Gibson McCormick Robinson
Brown-J Graves Mowery

Nay - 0

Abstain - 0

Excused - 2
Brown-A Evans

Excused - 0
