[Page 1 of 9]
CITY-COUNTY GENERAL RESOLUTION NO. 11, 2021
Proposal No. 258, 2021

A PROPOSAL FOR A GENERAL RESOLUTION approving the issuance of one or more series of City of
Indianapolis, Indiana Stormwater Revenue Bonds and, if necessary, one or more series of bond anticipation notes or other notes in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed Fifty Million Dollars ($50,000,000) and approving and authorizing other actions in respect thereto.

WHEREAS, the Board of Public Works (“Board”) of the City of Indianapolis, Indiana (“City”) being
‘the governing body of the Marion County Stormwater Management District (“Stormwater District”), has determined that it is necessary to issue revenue bonds (“Bonds”) of the Stormwater District in one or more series, bond anticipation notes ("BANs”) of the Stormwater District in one or more series, or other short- term notes (“Notes”) of the Stormwater District to be issued in one or more series, in the aggregate principal amount not to exceed Fifty Million Dollars ($50,000,000) for the purposes of procuring funds to apply to the costs of the projects specified in the Stormwater Capital Improvement Plan described below; and

WHEREAS, IC 8-1.5-5-23(a) and, to the extent applicable, IC 36-3-5-8, requires the City-County
Council of Indianapolis and Marion County, Indiana (the “City-County Council’) to approve the issuance of bonds or notes by the Stormwater District and any special taxing district of the City, respectively; and

WHEREAS, the Indianapolis Department of Public Works (the "DPW") 4-year (2022-2025)
Stormwater Capital Improvement Plan set forth in Exhibit A attached-hereto and incorporated herein (the "2022-2025 Stormwater Improvement Plan”) will invest approximately Three Hundred Millions Dollars ($300,000,000) from various sources of revenue in the planning, design, construction, and inspection of channels, culverts, levees and dams, stewardship, studies, and water quality projects;

WHEREAS, the 2022-2025 Stormwater improvement Plan has been programmed by the DPW
Engineering Division with specific projects from DPW, which projects were identified by need; and

WHEREAS, the 2022-2025 Stermwater Improvement Plan will be updated to the City-County
Council each May with the subsequent year added and the 2022-2025 Stormwater improvement Plan is dependent upon the dedicated revenues that are incorporated and appropriated each year by the City-
County Council and the Mayor, now, therefore,

WHEREAS, IC 5-1.4 provides that a “qualified entity”, which term includes the Stormwater District, may issue and sell its bonds or notes to the Indianapolis Local Public Improvement Bond Bank (“Bond
Bank”); and

‘WHEREAS, the Executive Director of the Bond Bank has expressed a willingness to purchase the
Bonds, BANs and/or Notes in a negotiated sale subject to approval by the Board of Directors of the Bond
Bank; and

WHEREAS, the City-County Council has determined that the issuance of the Bonds, BANs, and
Notes by the Stormwater District should be approved; now therefore:

BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA:

SECTION 1. The City-County Council does hereby approve the issuance of the Bonds of the Stormwater
District, to be issued in one or more series, BANs to be issued in one or more series, and Notes to be issued in one or more series, in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed Fifty Million Dollars ($56,000,000) to apply on the costs of the projects contained in the 2022-2025 Stormwater Capital
Improvement Pian (the “Projects”), and hereby approves the sale of the Bonds and the BANs to the Bond
Bank and the Notes to the Bond Bank or other purchaser.

SECTION 2. The 2022-2025 Stormwater Improvement Pian as set forth by DPW and attached as Exhibit
A, which includes the Projects to be funded by the issuance of the Bonds or Notes, is hereby endorsed by the City-County Council.

SECTION 3. This resolution shall be in full force and effect upon adoption and compliance with IC 36-3-4- 14,

GENERAL RESOLUTION RECORD 2021

[Page 2 of 9]
G.R. No. 11, 2021
Page 2

The foregoing was passed by the City-County Council this 13" day of September, 2021, at 8:57 p.m.

ATTEST:

SaRita Hughes
Clerk, City-County Council

Presented by me to the Mayor this 15'" day of September, 2021.
EEPb loa has

SaRita Hughes
Clerk, City-County Council

Approved and signed by me this SU © day of September, 2021. xf 0 sph . ef olt-

Joseph H. Hogsett, Mayor

STATE OF INDIANA, MARION COUNTY)
) Ss:
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS )

|, SaRita Hughes, Clerk of the City-County Council, Indianapolis, Marion County, Indiana, do hereby certify the above and foregoing is a full, true, and complete copy of Proposal No. 258, 2021, a Proposal for a
GENERAL RESOLUTION passed by the City-County-Council on the 13" day of September, 2021, by a vote of 23 YEAS and 0 NAYS and was retitled General Resolution No. 11, 2021, which was signed by the Mayor on the d EG day of September, 2021, and now-remains on file and on record in my office.

WITNESS my hand and the official seal of the City of indianapolis, Indiana, this at SE gay of September,

2021.
EP hl chupphes
SaRita Hughes
Clerk, City-County Council
(SEAL)

GENERAL RESOLUTION RECORD 2021

[Page 3 of 9]
Indianapolis City - County Council RCS# 272
2020-2023
2020-2023

9/13/2021 8:57 PM

Proposal: PROP21- 258 Ordinance: G.R. 11 (PASSED)
Sponsor: Adamson
Action: Adopt
Committee: Public Works

Yea: 23 Nay: 0 Abstain: 1 Not Voting: 0 Excused: 1
Yea - 23
Adamson Evans-E Jones Oliver
Bain Evans-J Larrison ie)
Barth Graves Lewis Potts
Brown Gray Mascari Ray
Carlino Hart McCormick Robinson
Dilk Jackson Mowery
Nay - 0
Abstain - 1
Boots
Excused - 1
Annee

Excused - 0

[Page 4 of 9]
CITY-COUNTY GENERAL RESOLUTION NO. 12, 2021
Proposal No. 288, 2021

A PROPOSAL FOR A GENERAL RESOLUTION electing to join the Public Employees’ Retirement Plan as administered by the Indiana Public Retirement System.

WHEREAS, the City-County Council of the City of Indianapolis and of Marion County, Indiana (‘“City-
County Council’) is the governing body of the Consolidated City of Indianapolis and Marion County, a political subdivision or miscellaneous participating entity in the STATE OF INDIANA; and

WHEREAS, the City-County Council adopted a resolution effective January 1, 2017 (GR No. 12, 2016) to set forth its election to join the Public Employees’ Retirement Plan as administered by the Indiana Public
Retirement System; and

WHEREAS, the City-County Council is adopting this general resolution to modify the options for new employees to be effective January 1, 2022, and this general resolution, once adopted and effective, will supersede and replace its GR No. 12, 2016; and

WHEREAS, for the purposes of this document and interpretation of statutes governing the Public
Employees’ Retirement Fund (“PERF”), “Plan” refers to the public employees’ defined contribution plan under IC 5-10.3-12 (‘PERF My Choice: Retirement Savings Plan”). “Fund” refers to the PERF Hybrid defined benefit pension fund ("PERF Hybrid”); and

WHEREAS, political subdivisions may participate in PERF My Choice: Retirement Savings Plan and choose whether employees are required to become members of the Plan, the Fund or may choose membership in either the Plan or the Fund; and

WHEREAS, the governing body is fully cognizant that, if it is resolved that the governing body will place any employees in the Fund, the percentage of cost of gross annual payroll of covered employees has been set at 11.2% by the actuary. of the Fund, and that the Board of Trustees of the Indiana Public Retirement
System directs the actuary to annually review the status of the employees covered and shall adjust the cost percentage accordingly so that he Fund will remain on an actuarially sound basis; and

WHEREAS, the governing body is fully cognizant that, if it is resolved that the governing body wi require employees to enter the Plan or offer employees a choice between Fund and Plan membership, the governing body shall submit a resolution with the following information regarding their participation in the
Plan:

1. Specify the political subdivision’s contribution rate to the plan as a percentage of each member's compensation AND pay such contributions as required under IC 5-10.3-12-23 and
IC 5-10.3-12-24.5. Such rates must be greater than or equal to zero percent (0%) and may not exceed the percentage that would produce the normal cost for participation in the fund under
IC 5-40.2-2-11.

2. Specify the political subdivision’s matching rate that is the percentage of each member's additional contributions to the plan that the political subdivision will match. A political subdivision may specify only:

(1) zero percent (0%): or
(2) fifty percent (50%).

3. Specify whether the political subdivision will pay any part of a member's contribution on behalf of the member,

4. Specify whether employees will automatically be enrolled in the Fund or the Plan if an eligible employee does.not make an affirmative election: and

WHEREAS, if such governing body participates in Fund, such governing body acknowledges its liabi ity and that, pursuant to law, it and its successors in office, must appropriate sufficient funds each year to retire the employees’ prior service liability in an orderly manner and also fund the current cost accruing annually;
and

WHEREAS, if such governing body participates in Plan, such governing body acknowledges its liability

and that, pursuant to law, it and its successors in office, must appropriate sufficient funds each year to meet all contribution obligations required by law; and

GENERAL RESOLUTION RECORD 2021

[Page 5 of 9]
G.R. No. 12, 2021
Page 2

WHEREAS, such governing body acknowledges and agrees to make a supplemental contribution (7.2% for FY 2021 and 7.3% as of FY 2022) to the fund in an amount necessary to pay the empioyer’s share of the fund’s actuarial unfunded lability that other employers would otherwise be required to pay because the employer’s employees are becoming members of the plan instead of the fund; and

WHEREAS, such governing body acknowledges and agrees, when an employee separates from service before the member is fully vested in the employer contribution subaccount, the amount in the employer contribution subaccount is forfeited as of the date the member separates from service and that such forfeited amounts shall be used to reduce the unfunded accrued liability of the fund as determined under IC 5-10.2-2-11(a)(3) and IC 5-10.2-2-11(a)(4). Employers without an unfunded liability, such as employers joining PERF for the first time and offering only Plan membership, such forfeited amounts will be returned to the employer in the form of a credit to the employer contribution subaccount; and

WHEREAS, the General Assembly of the State of Indiana has authorized covered employers to pick up all or part of members’ mandatory contributions; now, therefore:

BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA:

SECTION-1. The Consolidated City of Indianapolis and Marion County continues its election to be a ion or miscellaneous participating entity in the Public Employees’ Retirement
Fund by including classes of employees as stated below in the coverage under Chapter 340 of the Acts of 1945, and ali Acts amendatory thereof and supplemental thereto.

SECTION 2. The Consolidated City of Indianapolis and Marion County elects to offer the following retirement plan(s) under the Public Employees’ Retirement Fund:
PERF Hybrid
PERF My Choice: Retirement Savings Program
Both PERF Hybrid and PERF My Choice: Retirement Savings Plan to all employees allowing the employee to choose in which retirement plan the employee participate, based upon the employee’s previous participation in the Fund or the Plan.
PERF My Choice: Retirement Savings Plan, in addition to PERF Hybrid, for which this governing body has already submitted a resolution to join PERF Hybrid.

Xx PERF Hybrid only to certain classes of employees and PERF My Choice: Retirement
Savings Plan to certain classes of employees as set forth in the attached document.

xX Both PERF Hybrid and PERF My Choice: Retirement Savings Plan to certain classes of

employees, as set forth in an attached document, allowing those employees to choose in which retirement plan the employee will participate, based upon the employee's: previous participation in the Fund or the Plan.
If PERF My Choice in any format is selected above; please indicate whether PERF Hybrid retirees will be allowed to participate in PERF My Choice. If one of the checkboxes below is not selected, the default will be that no PERF Hybrid retirees will be allowed to participate in PERF My Choice.

Yes, PERF Hybrid retirees will be allowed to participate in PERF My Choice
X___No, PERF Hybrid retirees will not be allowed to participate in PERF My Choice

-SECTION 3. _ If an employee is eligible to choose membership in either the Fund or the Plan, and that employee fails to make an election within the period set forth in IC 5-10.3-12-20 and 35 IAC 1.3-4-1, said employee will. be automatically and irrevocably enrolled in the following plan:

X PERF Hybrid
PERF My Choice: Retirement Savings Plan

SECTION 4. Effective as of the 1% day of January 2017 and continuing in effect after the adoption of this
Resolution, this participating political subdivision or miscellaneous participating entity shall pick up 100% of the mandatory contribution for all employees who are members of PERF. Said employees shall not be entitled to choose to receive the contributed amounts directly instead of having them paid by the employer to the specified pension fund.

GENERAL RESOLUTION RECORD 2021

[Page 6 of 9]
G.R. No, 12, 2021
Page 3

CHOOSE EITHER 4A OR 4B

X__ 4A. New Money Pick-Up - That the above contributions, even though designated as employee contributions for state law purposes, are being paid by the employer in addition to the regular compensation as a supplemental contribution that is separate and distinct from the employees’ current or future compensation, and in lieu of contributions by the employees. Such contributions will net be included in the gross income of the employees for any tax reporting purposes, such as for federal, state or local income tax withholding, or FICA taxes, until distributed either through a pension benefit or a lump sum payment.
These contributions are made on a pre-tax basis and are paid by the employer on behalf of the employee.

___ 4B. Salary Reduction Pick-Up — That said contributions, even though designated as employee contributions for state law purposes, are being paid by the employer via a reduction in salary. Such contributions will not be included in the gross income of the employees for certain tax reporting purposes, that is for federal, state and local income tax withholding, until distributed either through a pension benefit ora lump sum payment. Such contributions will be included in the gross income of the employees for FICA taxes when they are made. These contributions are made on a pre-tax basis. but are paid by the employee through a payroll deduction.

SECTION 5. The Consolidated City of Indianapolis and Marion County, as a participating political subdivision, ‘offering the Plan, agrees to pay a contribution rate to the Plan as a percentage of each member’s compensation in the amount of 1% for FY 2021 and 0.9% for FY 2022. This amount may range from 0% to the percentage that would produce the normal cost for participation in the fund under IC 5-10.2- 2-11,

SECTION 6. The Consolidated City of Indianapolis and Marion County, as a participating political subdivision, offering the Plan, agrees to pay a matching rate in the amount of:

Fifty Percent (50%)
X__ Zero Percent (0%)

which is the percentage of each member's additional voluntary contributions to the Plan that governing body will match.

SECTION 7. The positions listed on the attached documents are declared covered by the Fund, the Plan, or Both as indicated in the Consolidated City of Indianapolis and Marion County Public Employees’
Retirement Fund (PERF) Coverage by Employee Classification, attached hereto and incerporated as
Exhibit A.

SECTION 8. It is hereby declared that none of the classifications or positions specified in Section Three (3) are-compensated on a fee basis or of an emergency nature, or in a part-time category.

SECTION 9. The active participation membership of the Consolidated City of Indianapolis and Marion
County began on January 4, 2017 and shall continue with the adoption of this Resolution.

SECTION 10. This resolution shall be in full force and effect from date of passage and upon approval of the Board of Trustees of the Indiana Public Retirement System, except that active participating membership shall begin on the date set forth in Section Nine (9).

SECTION 11. Should any provision (section, paragraph, sentence, clause, or any other portion) of this ordinance be declared by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, the remaining provision or provisions shall not be affected. fan only if such remaining provisions can, without the invali¢ provision: or provisions, be given the effect intended by the Council in adopting this ordinance. To this end the provisions of this ordinance are severable.

SECTION 12. This resolution shall be in effect from and after its passage by the Council and compliance with Ind. Code § 36-3-4-14.

GENERAL RESOLUTION RECORD 2021

[Page 7 of 9]
G.R. No. 12, 2021
Page 4

The foregoing was passed by the City-County Council this 13" day of poprember, 2021, at 9:02 p.m.

ATTEST:

Vop Osili

SSP bl Cua. Presid

SaRita Hughes
Clerk, City-County Council

ity-County Council

Presented by me to the Mayor this 15" day of September, 2021.
SSP hs
SaRita Hughes ”
Clerk, City-County Council

Approved and signed by me this HE day of September, 2021. xf papel Al Peg oot

Joseph H. Hogsett, Mayor

STATE OF INDIANA, MARION COUNTY)
) Ss:
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS )

|, SaRita Hughes, Clerk of the City-County Council, Indianapolis, Marion County, Indiana, do hereby certify the above and foregoing is a full, true, and complete copy of Proposal No. 288, 2021, a Proposal for a
GENERAL RESOLUTION passed by the City-County Council on the 13" day of September, 2021, by a vote of 24 YEAS and 0 NAYS and was retitled General Resolution No. 12, 2021, which was signed by the Mayor on the Al ae day of September, 2021, and-now remains on file and on record in my office.

WITNESS my hand and the official seal of the City of Indianapolis, Indiana, this a | x day of September, 2021.

SaRita Hughes
Clerk, City-County Council

(SEAL)

GENERAL RESOLUTION RECORD 2021

[Page 8 of 9]
G.R. No. 12, 2024
Page 5

EXHIBIT A

Consolidated City of Indianapolis and Marion County
Public Employees’ Retirement Fund (PERF) Coverage by Employee Classification

e PERF My Choice: Retirement Savings Plan for all employees:

o With an employment start date after January 1, 2017 through and including December 31. 2021.

* PERF Hybrid or PERF My Choice: Retirement Savings Plan, a choice betweenthe Fund and the
Plan, for employees:

o With an employment start date after January 1, 2022; or o Employees with an employment start date of January 1, 2017 up to and including

12/31/2021, who transfer between a City agency/office/department and a County agency/office/department.

e@ PERF Hybrid:

o Continued membership for all current employees until termination of employment; and

o Continued membership for employees with an employment start date prior to 1/1/2017 who transfer between a City agency/office/department and a County agency/office/department.

GENERAL RESOLUTION RECORD 2021

[Page 9 of 9]
Indianapolis City - County Council RCS# 279
2020-2023
2020-2023

9/13/2021 9:02 PM

Proposal: PROP21- 288 Ordinance: G.R. 12 (PASSED)
Sponsor: Mascari
Action: Adopt
Committee: Admin and Fin

Yea: 24 Nay: 0 Abstain: 0 Not Voting: 0 Excused: 1
Yea - 24
Adamson Dilk Jackson Mowery
Bain Evans-E Jones Oliver
Barth Evans-J Larrison Osili
Boots Graves Lewis Potts
Brown Gray Mascari Ray
Carlino Hart McCormick Robinson
Nay -0
Abstain - 0
Excused - 1
Annee

Excused - 0
