[Page 1 of 10]
CITY-COUNTY GENERAL ORDINANCE NO. 39, 2021
Proposal No. 289, 2021

PROPOSAL FOR A GENERAL ORDINANCE to amend the Revised Code to incorporate the telecom and- —

video services agency into the information services agency, to consolidate the agencies’ governing boards, and to make related changes.

BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA:

SECTION 1. Sections 181-702 and 281-201 through 281-233 of the “Revised Code of the Consolidated
City and County,” regarding the Marion County Information Technology Board and the Information Services
Agency (ISA), hereby are amended by the deletion of the language that is stricken and the addition of the language that is underscored, to read as follows:

Sec. 181-702. Authorization to make public purpose grants.

(a} Any city department ofthe-city or county agency that has a governing body may make a public purpose grant upon the adoption of a resolution by the governing body ef the department finding that a public purpose grant is necessary and desirable in the public interest and in furtherance of
@ purpose for which the city department or county agency is otherwise. authorized to expend public moneys.

(b) A public purpose grant of the type described in section 181-601(2) may be made only by the department of metropolitan development upon the adoption of a resolution by the metropolitan development commission.

(c) A public purpose grant may be made upen conditions and terms deemed appropriate by the city department or county agency making the grant.

(d) The authority to make a public purpose grant is within the discretion of the appropriate city department or county agency and its governing body, and no department shall be compelled to make any public purpose grant.

Sec. 281-201. Definitions.
As used in this article, the following terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them:

(a) Board means the Marion County Information Technology Board.

(b) Chief information officer means the director of the-information services agency and team leader of the IT team.

(c) Council means the City-County Council of Indianapolis and Marion County.

(d) ISA means the Information Services Agency of Indianapolis and Marion County.

(e) /T means all aspects of information technology, data processing and related services including telecommunications and the provision of governmental access video services channels.
governmental access streaming video services, and website-driven programming.

(f) | /T team-means the information technology integration and coordinating team.

(g) Subject agencies means any and all agencies, officers, offices, boards, commissions, divisions and departments of the city, of the county, units of township government in the county, and any court or prosecutor funded by the county.

(h) Telecommunications means all aspects of telephone services, including voice, data and video transmission and equipment.

(i) Usermeans any and all subject agencies as defined herein and any and all other entities which use the services of ISA.

(i) | Enhanced access activities means activities necessary for the provision of enhanced access services in accordance with Chapter 285, Article Hl of this Revised Code.

Sec. 281-211. Board created; members; compensation.

(a) To ensure enterprise-wide connectivity, compatibility and integration of information technology and the cost-effective provision of quality information systems and services, including telecommunications,

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2021

[Page 2 of 10]
G.O. No. 39, 2021
Page 2

there is hereby created the county information technology board, which shall consist of the following
~prsons, who shall be appointed for the following terms: .

(1)

(2)
(3)
(4)

(5)

Two (2) city officers appointed by the mayor of the city to serve at the pleasure of the mayor.
One (1) such person shall be a representative for public safety agencies, and the other shall be a representative for public service agencies;

Three (3) of four (4) county constitutional officeholders, limited to the auditor, the clerk, the sheriff and the treasurer of the county, to be appointed by and serve at the pleasure of the council;
One (1) representative appointed by the presiding judges of the county superior court, representing the judicial branch of local government;

Two (2) persons, with senior management experience which includes holding or having heid line authority over the manager of the data processing area of an organization located in Marion
County, that utilizes a large data processing installation comparable to the city-county installation, and that4s not in the business of selling data processing equipment or services. One (1) such person shall be appointed by the council and the other by the mayor. The terms of such appointments shall be staggered by the initial appointment of the mayor's appointment to a three- year term and the council's appointment to a two-year term; thereafter each to serve for two- year terms but at the pleasure of the respective appointing authority; and

The Marion County Assessor.

(b)- The three constitutional officeholders and the assessor may serve by proxy. The officeholder shall appoint the proxy in writing annually. Ail other board members shail serve in person and not by proxy.

Board Members shail serve

ithout compensation, except that personal expenses incurred through

service to the board, travel, lodging and fees may be reimbursed to the board member upon
-authorization of the board.

Sec. 281-212. Powers and duties.

(a) The board shall have the following powers and duties:

(1)
(2)
(3)

(4)

(3)
(48)

(62)

(68)

(79)

To establish and revise information technology guidelines, standards. and benchmark

processes for subject agencies and other users;

To establish and maintain procedures for the technology related planning, approval and

quality review of information technology operations and initiatives;

To assist in the formulation of policy concerning appropriation of funds for governmental

access video services channels, governmental_access streaming video services, and

website driven-programming, including:

{A) The production of materials for use on governmental access video services channels, governmental access streaming video services, and website-driven programming:

(B) The construction and maintenance of facilities for such production: and

(C) The education of the public in the use of such facilities:

To advise the mayor and the council in the formulation and implementation of policy on

video services communications, on governmental access video services channels and

streaming video services, and website driven programming, as well as other governmental educational and public-access issues;

To review, approve and administer major IT contracts;

To define at least-five (5) functional classifications for representation of the various subject

agencies on the iT team;

To review and make recommendations concerning all information budgets, and approve

all operating systems, contracts and expenditures for IT services, equipment purchase,

rent or lease, consultants, management or technical personnel, studies, programs and IT materials or supplies for any and all users;

To conduct studies and evaluations of any and all IT needs and current systems operations

of users;

To contract for technical and specialized assistance in administering its duties;

(810)To require annual IT service plans and resources inventories from all users;

(914)

To develop, maintain and communicate IT services policy and administrative procedures for users and an IT services master plan for users;

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2021

[Page 3 of 10]
(b)

{c)

Sec.

Sec.

(a)

(b)

{c)

()

G.O. No. 39, 2021
Page 3

(4012) To employ, or retain by personal services contract, a chief information officer, who shall

~~" have such duties as established herein, to serve at the pleasure of the board;

(4418) To promulgate rules and regulations for the efficient administration of its policies and procedures for users;

(4214) To develop and oversee adherence to standards for security and confidentiality of all data, information and telecommunication systems, including backup/recovery plans;

(4315) The exclusive power to select and contract with telecommunication providers for all city and county offices and agencies, whose expenditures for such services are paid from funds subject to appropriation by the city-county council;

(4416) To delegate any functions to the chief information officer or the IT team, subject to review by the board.

In addition to the powers and duties described in subsection (a), the board shall perform all enhanced access activities under Chapter 285, Article lil of this Revised Code.

Should any powers granted by this article conflict. with powers granted under IC 36-8-15-1 et seq. or sections 285-611 et seq. of this Code or Chapter 851 or Article | of Chapter 285, the provisions of IC 36-8-15-1 et seq. or sections 285-611 et seq. of this Code or Chapter 851 or Article | of Chapter 285 shall control.

281-213. Officers; quorum; meetings.

The officers of the board-shall be a chairperson and a secretary. The chairperson and the secretary shall be elected by the board. All contracts, agreements, resolutions and official communications of the board shall be in writing and be executed by these officers upon being authorized by motion passed by the board by simple majority of its members present.

A quorum of the board for official action in session. shall be five (5) members. Official minutes of meetings shall-be kept by the chief information officer.

The board shall meet monthly at such place and time as may be set by the chairperson, and may meet at such other times and places as may be needed in special session called by the chairperson fora particular purpose. All meetings, whether regular or special, shall be open to the public. No official action may be taken by the board except at a public meeting, whether regular or special. Board members may confer from time to time in executive session without the necessity of calling a public meeting as applicable by law.

281-221. Chief information officer—Qualifications; responsibilities generally.
The board shall employ or retain by personal services contract a chief information officer.

The chief information officer shall have such qualifications and experience as set by the board. The chief information officer shall act as technical advisor and provide staff support for the board in its deliberations. The chief information officer shall have the authority and responsibility to act for the board in its name on a daily operational basis when the board is not in session, but all such action shall be subject to the review of the board.

The chief information officer shall manage and supervise ISA. The chief information officer shall be responsible for the planning, organization and management of [SA, within the organization plans and

policies.approved by the board.

The chief information officer shall be a member and team leader of the IT team.

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2021

[Page 4 of 10]
Sec. 281-222. Same—Powers and duties.

G.O. No. 39, 2021
Page 4

The chief information officer shall have the following additional specific duties:

(1) To review IT activities, operations, requests and technical personnel of the users and provide recommendations on same to the subject agency or board; to oversee the overall management IT activities which are subject to this article;

(2). To manage all enterprise-wide IT contracts and assist in the management of the IT centracts of the subject agencies;

(3) To monitor IT budgets for contract administration,

(4) To monitor service level agreements and charges,

(5) To receive and review with comment and recommendations all reports, requests and documents for the board;

(6) Te communicate for and on behalf of the board with the users, including subject agencies, other governmental units. and the private sector when the board is not in session;

(7) To receive budget proposals-for IT services and operations for agencies of the consolidated city, the county, the courts and other users and to assist the board in review and evaluation of the budgets prior to their submission to the city-county council;

(8) To review all contracts for IT services, equipment lease, rent or purchase, materials, supplies, consultants, technical personnel, studies or programs for users, including specifically, ISA, and submit same with comment.and recommendations to the board for its action;

(9) To coordinate the preparation of a master plan for IT operations for all users within the direction’ given from the board;

(10) To manage the operation of governmental access video services channels, governmental access streaming video services, and website driven programming, and to advise city and county agencies with respect to video service as generally-defined in 47 USC § 522:

ay To grant funds to entities with services designated for public, education, ‘or governmental programming on the governmental access video services channels and streaming services, subject to the approval of the information technology board;

(12) To fulfill the functions designated in section 285-107 of the Code: and

(4013) To implement all-administrative rules and regulations promulgated by the board.

Sec. 281-223. Board approvai required for services.

(a) The written approval of the board shall be obtained before any. subject agency shall:

(b)

(1) Acquire by-contract, purchase, lease or rental ef-any data processing services, equipment, materials, supplies, programs or software; or

(2) Acquire by contract, purchase, lease or rental

equipment, materials, or supplies relating to telephone or

telecommunications services, or to governmental access video services channels, governmental

access streaming video services, and website driven programming; or

(3) Authorize or contract for studies, technical personnel or consultants regarding data processing or telecommunications services (including governmental access video_services_channels.
governmental access streaming video services, and website driven programming).

No subject agency or officer, employee or agent thereof shall purchase, lease, rent.or contract for the use of-any IT services, equipment, materials, supplies, IT studies, programs, technical personnel or consultants without first submitting a weitten proposal to the board for its review, recommendations and approval. Any such purchase, lease, rental or contract entered into by a subject agency without the prior written approval of the board shall be voidable at the option of the board.

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2021

[Page 5 of 10]
G.O. No. 39, 2021
Page 5

Sec. 281-224. Appeal procedure, |

(a) Any subject agency or user which, in the opinion of that agency manager, feels aggrieved at a decision of the board concerning that agency's IT systems and services, including telecommunications, may file a written request for review of such decision with the chairperson of the board, who shall place such request on the agenda of the special meeting of the board for the purpose of appellate review.
The board shall call a special meeting to hear the appeal, and for the purpose of special meetings for appeals, the board shall consist of the regular board members, plus the mayor or the mayor's designee and the president of the city-county council or such president's designee. The decision of this board shall be final, except as provided in subsection (b) below, and shall be entered of record in the minutes of the board. In order to hear the appeal, the board shail have present at least four (4) of its regular members plus eifher the mayor (or designee) or the president of the city-county council (or such president's designee).

(b) Should an elected official feel that a decision resulting from appeal to this board constitutes a derogation of the elected official's powers, duties or responsibilities or otherwise feel aggrieved, the matter shall be heard and finally resolved by majority vote at a special meeting of the committee on rules and public policy of the city-county council with at least five (5) members present and voting.
Such meeting shail be held within twenty-one (21) days of written request by the elected official.

Sec. 281-231. Information services agency created.

There is created the information services agency (ISA) which shail be under the policy supervision of the county information technology board through the chief information officer.

Sec. 281-232. Reserved.

Editor's note(s)—G.O. 202Editor's note(s)—, 1995, § 1, adopted Nov. 20, 1995, deleted, in effect repealed,
§ 281-232Editor's note(s)—, which pertained to duties of director with respect to information services agency and derived from G.O. 2, 1993, § 4.

Sec. 281-233. Agency function.

ISA.shall provide IT services to those local government-subject agencies and other users designated by the board according to the direction given by the board and to the master plan for the county as developed by the board in conjunction with the subject agencies, including ISA and other users. ISA, subject to the board's direction, shall be the primary provider of services for the city, the county, the courts and all other approved users. With approval of the board, ISA may contract with other agencies, including nongovernmental entities, for the provision of IT systems and services, including telecommunications and governmental access video services channels, governmental access streaming video services, and website driven programmin

SECTION 2. Sections 285-101 through 285-110 of the “Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County,” regarding franchise fees and formerly regarding the telecom and video services agency and board, hereby

are amended by the deletion of the language that is stricken and the addition of the language that is underscored, to read as follows:

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2021

[Page 6 of 10]
G.O. No. 39, 20214
Page 6

ARTICLE |. — FRANCHISE FEES FOR VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDERS IN MARION COUNTY

Sec. 285-107. Provisions regarding holders.

(a)

(b)

Application. This section shall apply to any holder of a certificate ("holder") from the Indiana Utility
Regulatory Commission that provides video service in the county, as those italicized terms are defined in IC 8-1-34.

Franchise fees payments. A holder shall pay to the city franchise fees pursuant to IC 8-1-34-24, which are based upon the holder's gross revenue, as defined in iC 8-1-34-5, derived quarterly from its operations to provide video services within the county.

(1) The city may conduct periodic audits of the operator's records to determine compliance with this provision pursuant to IC 8-1-34-24(c). The city's acceptance of the operator's franchise fee payments does not constitute an accord and satisfaction.nor are such payments in lieu of any other fees, taxes, or payments owed by the operator.

(2) If the holder and city cannot agree on the amount of gross revenue on which the franchise fee should be based, city may petition the Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission according to IC 8- 4-34-24 (c).

(3) Interest on unpaid fees. The operator shall pay simple interest at the rate of eight (8) percent per annum on all franchise fees which remain unpaid after the date they are due until the fees are paid.

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2021

[Page 7 of 10]
(c}

(d)

(e)

()

(g)

Sec.

(e)

G.O. No. 39, 2021
Page 7

Reports fo be filed. With each quarterly payment of a franchise fee remitted to the city pursuant to IC 8-1-34-25(cd), a holder shall include a statement explaining the basis for the calculation of the franchise fee to the controller's office, and the controller's office shall provide a copy to the Information

Services Agency telecom-and video-services_agency-upon request.

City inspections; maintenance of records.

(1) The city may review the books and records of the holder to the extent necessary fo ensure the holder's compliance with IC 8-1-34-23 in calculating the gross revenue upon which the remitted franchise fee is based. The city shall have the right to inspect the holder's video service system over the public rights of way during normal business hours.

(2) The city shall bear its own costs of all inspections.

Video services to community public buildings. If a holder is required to provide service to community public buildings according to the terms of its local franchise agreement that was in effect on June 30, 2006, itis required to provide such service upon request Fequests-pursuant to IC 8-1-34-29,

Public, educational, or governmental access channels, facilities and equipment or financial support shall be provided according to IC 8-1-34-29Sections 8-1-34-25 through 8-1-34-27.

Interconnection of institutional networks. \f a holder's former franchise agreement requires the provision of an institutional network under the terms of the former local franchise agreement that was in effect on June 30, 2006, then the holder whose video service system is in place as of the effective date of this ordinance shall be entitled to apportion the incremental costs among ail holders that provide video service within a unit pursuant to IC 8-1-34-29(d).

285-108. Use of public ways

The holder shall comply with the provisions of this code regarding the use and occupation of public rights-of-way of the city including, but not limited to, Article Il of Chapter 645 of the Code, and the payment of all generally applicable fees so long as. such fees are not inconsistent with IC 8-1-34, federal law and any other applicable law for the provision of such Charges and that such charges are not specific to any one operator or utility providing services in the city over or under the public rights- of-way.

All poles, cables, towers, lines, and other equipment and fixtures placed by the holder within the public ways, whether above, on, or below ground, of the city shall be so located as to cause minimum interference with other authorized users of the public ways and adjoining premises.

if the disturbance of any public way is necessary, the holder shall comply with all requirements of the city relevant to such disturbance.

if at any time during the period of the franchise the city shall deem it necessary to change the location of any pole, cable, tower, line and other equipment or fixture located in any public way, either above, on, or below ground, the holder, upon reasonable notice by the city and reasonable time for compliance, shall relocate its.poies, cables, towers, lines, and other equipment and fixtures at no cost to the city, however the holder may pass through such costs as may be allowed under applicable law.

The holder shall have the authority fo trim trees upon and overhanging the public ways of the city so as to prevent the branches of such trees from coming in contact with the cables and the equipment of the holder, except that, at the option of the city, such trimming may be done by it or under its supervision and direction. Should the city determine to perform such trimming the hoider shall not be liable for any reimbursement unless otherwise previously and mutually agreed upon between the parties.

In all sections of the city where. the cables, wires or other like facilities of public utilities are placed underground, the holder shall place its cables and other equipment underground to the maximum extent it can be accomplished using proven technology generally used by the video services industry for comparable systems.

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2021

[Page 8 of 10]
(9)

(i)

G.O. No. 39, 2021
Page 8

A holder having a‘state certificate of video franchise authority tc operate a video service system for only a portion of the city shall have the right to use the public ways throughout the city as necessary or advisable for the efficient construction, operation and maintenance of that system, provided that video services may be provided only to subscribers located within the area of the holder's designated service area. Use of the public ways outside of the holder's designated service area to construct, operate, or maintain the holder's video service system shall not unreasonably interfere with the construction, operation and maintenance of a video service system by a hoider who has, or thereafter obtains, a state certificate of video franchise authority to serve subscribers in such outside area. The city shail have power to promulgate rules and regulations with respect to jointly used public ways as considered necessary or desirable.

Notice to occupants of property. Unless in the event of an emergency repair prior to the start of construction within any easement other than a public street right-of-way, the holder must give written notice to all affected property occupants, if reasonable to do so, informing them that the holder be working in the area affecting such property occupants. Such notice shall include a telephone number, which may be called by property occupants who encounter any problems or damages as a result of such work by the holder. Such notice may be by direct mail, email, local newspaper, door hanger or similar method of communication as determined by the operator.

Holder responsibility for damages. The holder shall be responsible for repairs to public or private property necessitated by damage caused by or resulting from the holder's or holder's subcontractors’ construction operation, or maintenance of the system.

Deadlines for repair of public and private property; lawn repair. The repair of public and private property damaged during construction, operation, or maintenance of the holder's system shall be completed no later than sixty (60) days affer notice to the holder of the damage unless otherwise not possible due to inclement weather conditions or for any other reason not within the control of the operator. Lawns shall be repaired to the preconstruction condition however if is understood preconstruction condition does not mean original condition.

Safety requirements.

(1) The holder shall at all times comply with all safety requirements of the Code.

(2) The holder shall at all times employ reasonable care and -shall install and maintain in use commonly accepted methods and devices for preventing failures and accidents which are likely to cause damage, injury or nuisance to the public.

(3) All cables and other equipment within the public ways of the city shall at all times be kept and maintained in as safe condition and by generally acceptable practices used by the video services industry for comparable systems.

(4) Operation of the system shall not cause any interference to television and radio reception, telephone communication, or other similar operations within the county.

Sec. 285-109. Powers reserved to other entities.

(a).

(b)

Pursuant to IC 8-1-34-16(a), the Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission is the exclusive franchising authority, as defined in 47 USC 522(10), for the provision of video service in Indiana. Pursuant to the federal regulation, 47 CFR 76.309, the Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission shall be the sole authority to address consumer complaints regarding telecommunications and video services.

Pursuant to IC 8-1-34-16(b), state law preserves for the city the limited power to enforce an ordinance

governing the use of public rights-of-way. In accordance therewith, section 285-108 of the Code shall be enforced by the department of public works.

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2021

[Page 9 of 10]
G.O. No. 39, 2021
Page 9

Sec. 285-110. Council oversight.

Whenever the information services agency telecom-and-video-services-agency-or the information technology board telecem-and—video-services_board—determines that an issue raised with respect to

telecommunications or video services is beyond the authority of the agency or board or raises questions of the-public policy, such issues may be referred fo the council committee on rules and public policy.

SECTION 3. This ordinance shall be in full force and effect upon adoption and compliance with IC 36-3-4- 14.

The foregoing was passed by the City-County Council this 13! day of September, 2021, at 9:03 p.m.

ATTEST:

ey he } Vop Os
Pb ough Presid
SaRita Hughes
Clerk, City-County Council

Presented by me to the Mayor this 15" day of September, 2021.

SPA
SaRita Hughes
Clerk, City-County Council

Approved and signed by me this Q | e day of September, 2021. +f:
0 sph mae OX

Joseph H. Hogsett, Mayor

STATE OF INDIANA, MARION COUNTY)
) $s:
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS )

|, SaRita Hughes, Clerk of the City-County Council, Indianapolis, Marion County, Indiana, do hereby certify the above and foregoing is a full, true, and complete copy of Proposal No. 289, 2021, a Proposal for a
GENERAL ORDINANCE passed by the City-County Council on the 13" day of September, 2021, by a vote of 24 YEAS and 0 NAYS and was retitled General Ordinance No. 39, 2021, which was signed by the Mayor on the Al @E day of September, 2021, and now remains on file and on record in my office.

WITNESS my hand and the official seal of the City of Indianapolis, Indiana, this olf ar day of September,

2021.

SaRita Hughes

Clerk, City-County Council
(SEAL)

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2021

[Page 10 of 10]
Indianapolis City - County Council RCS# 280
2020-2023
2020-2023

9/13/2021 9:03 PM

Proposal: PROP21- 289 Ordinance: G.O. 39 (PASSED)
Sponsor: Mascari
Action: Adopt
Committee: Admin and Fin

Yea: 24 Nay: 0 Abstain: 0 Not Voting: 0 Excused: 1
Yea - 24
Adamson Dilk Jackson Mowery
Bain Evans-E Jones Oliver
Barth Evans-J Larrison Osili
Boots Graves Lewis Potts
Brown Gray Mascari Ray
Carlino Hart McCormick Robinson
Nay -0
Abstain - 0
Excused - 1
Annee

Excused - 0
