[Page 1 of 22]
CITY-COUNTY GENERAL ORDINANCE NO. 55, 2023
Proposal No. 306, 2023

A PROPOSAL FOR A GENERAL ORDINANCE amending Chapters 141, 151, 175, 192, 285, 293, and 431 of the Revised Code to change the British English “councillor” to the American English “councilor”.

BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA:

SECTION 1. All references in the Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County to the word “councillor” are hereby deleted (indicated by a strikethrough) and replaced with the word “councilor” (indicated by an underline) to read as follows:

Sec. 141-301. Purpose.

The purpose of this article is to assure that those regulations of the consolidated city and county that have a broad regulatory effect on the lives of citizens, business activities, and development:

(1) Do not impose costs (on regulated parties, on persons who pay taxes and fees for government services, and consumers of products and services of regulated parties) that exceed the benefits that are realized by the community;

(2) Achieve the regulatory goal in the least restrictive way;

(3) Do not duplicate existing standards found in either local, state, or federal codes and do not exceed existing federal or state standards unless there is a significant reason to do so;

(4) Are simply written; and
(5) Are practically enforceable.

To achieve these purposes, this chapter establishes procedures for making such proposed regulations subject to informed and open public discussion and debate that is led by elected councilors. councilors and involves representatives of affected interests, including the interests of neighborhoods, business, regulated parties, customers of regulated parties, taxpayers, and the applicable regulatory agency.

Sec 151-2. Membership of councils

The city-county council and each special service district council shall consist of twenty-five (25) members elected as provided by statute. The preferred form of address for members of the council shail be councillor councilor.

Sec. 151-4. Days, time and place of regular meetings.

Regular meetings shall be held at least once each month on such dates and at such times as the council shall establish by resolution adopted at least forty-five (45) days prior to such meeting. If no such dates are so established, the regular meeting shail be held on the first Monday of each month at 7:00 p.m. prevailing local time, in the council chamber, on the second floor of the city-county building in Indianapolis. In the event that the date of the regular meeting is on a holiday observed by state law or local ordinance for employees of the consolidated city, the regular meeting shall be held on the next succeeding day that is not such a holiday nor a Saturday, or Sunday, unless the council, by a majority vote at a prior meeting, shall cancel the meeting or postpone it to another date. The time or place of any regular meeting may be changed by majority vote at a prior regular meeting.

In addition, in the event of severe weather or other emergency making it unsafe or impractical for councilars councilors, staff, and the public to travel to or from a regular meeting, the meeting may be cancelled by a majority vote of the president, majority leader and minority leader of the council. This vote shall be documented by e-mail, text, or facsimile, and conference calls may be used for initial discussions.

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2023

[Page 2 of 22]
G.O. No. 55, 2023
Page 2

Sec. 151-7. Litigation procedures.

(a) If the city-county council or members of the city-county council are named as parties in any judicial or administrative proceeding under circumstances that any member of the council or the corporation counsel deems the interests of the council or the city may be adverse to each other, such ceuneiler councilor or the corporation counsel shall inform the president of the city-county council of such circumstances. Upon being so advised the president shall determine if such a conflict exists. If he determines that a conflict does exist, the general counsel shall represent the city-county council in accordance with section 151-101(d) of the Code.

(b) In any judicial or administrative proceeding that either the city-county council or members of the city- county council are named as parties or in which the city-county council has intervened as a party, the president is authorized to provide instructions to the attorney representing the city-county council as to the conduct of the proceeding, including agreeing to settlement, decisions to petition for review or appeal, and other issues arising during the proceedings.

(c) During any such proceeding, any member of the city-county council may introduce a proposal for a council resolution that specific instructions issued by the president to the attorney representing the council be reviewed or reconsidered. The president shall refer such proposal to the committee on rules and public policy.
If the city-county council adopts the proposal, the instructions of the president's are overruled and replaced by those contained in the proposal.

(d) The instructions of the president to the attorney representing the city-county council shall be in force and effect until and unless those instructions are overruled or replaced by those contained in a resolution adopted by the city-county council. If such a resolution is adopted, the instructions contained in such resolution shall be in force and effect and the president may issue further Instructions, provided that the president's further instructions do not conflict with the instructions contained in such resolution. Thereafter, the city-county council may modify or rescind its prior resolution in accordance with subsection (c) of this Section.

Sec. 151-29. Attendance at meetings of standing committees by council members who are not on the committee.

Any member of the council shall be entitled to attend and participate in the discussions before any standing committee. The seunciliar(s) councilor(s) introducing any proposal referred to a standing committee shall be a member of that committee while it is considering that proposal, but such councilors councilors shall not be entitled to vote or be counted in determining a quorum.

Sec. 151-51. Time limit on speaking.

(a) No member of a council shall speak more than twice, nor for more than five (5) minutes on each occasion, upon any one (1) question in debate during the same session or meeting, without leave therefor of except in explanation, unless such member is the mover, proposer or introducer of the matter pending, in which case such member shall be permitted to speak in reply, but not until every other member desiring to speak shall have spoken.

(b) After the president has called for the vote on final adoption of a proposal and after the vote count has been announced, a eeuneilier councilor may be granted up to one (1) minute to explain the vote such counciller councilor has cast, which explanation shail be limited to the subject matter of that proposal.

Sec. 181-52. Roll call votes.

(a) Recorded votes. All votes upon the final adoption of proposals for ordinances or general resolutions, motions to reconsider or motions to suspend the rules, shall be by roll call vote. If electronic or mechanical voting systems are installed for use by the council, the recording of the vote by such methods shall be the same as a vote by calling the roll and may be used for the roll call at the opening of a meeting and to determine a quorum. All ordinances or resolutions shall be adopted solely upon the affirmative vote of a majority of all members of the council. All members present shall vote on all roll call votes unless under section 151-1121 a member is permitted to abstain or is disqualified.

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2023

[Page 3 of 22]
G.O. No. 55, 2023
Page 3

(b) Challenges. Whenever the propriety of voting of a councillor councilor on any matter is challenged by another Geunciller councilor and such ceunciller councilor refuses to abstain, a motion shall be in order to disqualify such councillor councilor. Such motion shall be decided by majority vote of those present, including the councilor councilor challenged. If the motion to disqualify carries, the vote of such member shail not be counted on the matter with respect to which the ceuncillor councilor was disqualified. Unless the propriety of a souncillor's councilor's vote is challenged under this subsection prior to the call for the vote by the presiding officer, the right of the councillor councilor to vote shall not thereafter be challenged.

Sec. 151-63. Procedures for introduction of proposals.

(a) Councillors Councilors or other persons authorized by law may initiate proposals for introduction by submitting such proposals to the clerk for review by the general counsel as to form and legality. If such person is not a ceuneiller councilor, the person shall indicate the councillor councilor who has agreed to sponsor the proposal. Gouncillers Councilors or other persons authorized by law may not refile the same or substantively the same proposal within a six (6) month period without first obtaining the president's approval.

(b) If such proposal is approved by the general counsel and was submitted by noon on the fifth business day prior to the date the preliminary agenda is to become available to the public pursuant to SECTION 151- 95(2)(b)3., the proposal shall be entered on the agenda of that meeting for introduction.

(c) The deadline established by subsection (b) may be waived only by the president of the council.
Sec. 151-69. Notice of board and commission vacancies and expiring terms.

In order to facilitate eeuncilor councilor input into the process by which the council appoints members of boards, commissions, committees, and authorities, the clerk shall, at least once per quarter:

(a) Provide notice to all couneiliers councilors of current board, commission, committee, and authority vacancies to which the council makes appointments; and

(b) Provide notice to all councilors councilors of the board, commission, committee, and authority terms, to which the council makes appointments, that will expire during the following quarter.

The clerk shall also provide notice of any legal requirements with respect to the vacancies and expiring terms.
Sec. 151-74. introduction of proposals.

Proposals shall be introduced and presented to the city-county council only in the following manner: Under the proper item of business, the clerk shall read the proposal, stating only the number, reciting the title and stating the name of the person initiating the proposal. After each proposal is introduced, the president shall state the committee to which the proposal is referred or, if the proposal has been previously referred fo a committee, the committee to which the referral was made. If, by law, a public hearing before the entire council is required, the public hearing shall be at the next regular meeting unless the president shall state another date for the public hearing.

If the proposal is to change the zone maps incorporated by reference into the zoning ordinance under IC 36-7-4-608, and the metropolitan development commission has certified the proposal to the clerk under IC 36- 7-4-605(c), the councillor councilor in whose district the parcel of real property under consideration is located, may move that the proposal be set for public hearing before the entire city-county council. If no such motion is made, or if the motion is not adopted by a majority vote of the council, then the decision of the metropolitan development commission shall be deemed affirmed.

(G.O. 68, 1988, § 6; G.O. 144, 1993, § 1; G.O. 36, 2014, § 1; G.O. 98, 2015, § 2)

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2023

[Page 4 of 22]
G.O. No. 55, 2023
Page 4

Sec. 151-79. Special procedures for rezoning ordinances.

(a) Application. Proposals for changing the zone maps incorporated by reference into the Marion County zoning ordinance may be scheduled for a public hearing pursuant to IC 36-7-4-608. Whenever pursuant to IC 36-7-4-608 the council schedules such a public hearing, the rules set forth in this section shalt apply.

(b) Prehearing procedures. After such public hearing is scheduled by vote of the council, a preliminary investigation shall proceed as follows:

(1) The general counsel shall notify the administrator of the division of planning within two (2) days after a rezoning hearing is scheduled, and the administrator shall distribute in writing to all councillors councilors and the general counsel the staff comments and any other information deemed by him or her relevant to the matter to be heard. Such materials shall be mailed or delivered at least seven (7) days prior to the hearing date.

(2) Any interested party may distribute any relevant written materials to ceuneilors councilors, provided ail such information is distributed to all couneiiers councilors. Such materials will be distributed to councillors councilors by the clerk's staff if thirty-five (35) copies are delivered at the staff conference provided in paragraph (3) of this subsection.

(3) The general counsel shall conduct a preliminary staff conference on all rezoning petitions on the
Wednesday immediately preceding the scheduled hearing beginning at 2:00 p.m. in the clerk's offices, unless the petitioners and remonstrators agree to a different time. The petitioners and any remonstrators each shall be represented at such conference by not more than two (2) persons for each side, one (1) of whom may be their attorney.

(4) The purpose of the staff conference shall be to ensure agreement as to the procedures for the public hearing, to promote agreement on order of presentation, to list witnesses and exhibits, fo narrow issues to be heard, and to consider compromises, which can be implemented by modifications of petitioners’ commitments.

(5) If the petitioners and remonstrators compromise their differences and advise the general counsel of such settlement prior to release of the preliminary agenda for the meeting at which such public hearing has been scheduled, the preliminary agenda shall indicate that a proposed settlement has been reached.

(c) Action on prehearing settlements. \f the petitioners and remonstrators negotiate a compromise that can be implemented by petitioners’ modification of commitments and such settlement is acceptable to the seunciler councilor who requested the public hearing, the petitioners shall file executed copies of the revised or additional commitments with the metropolitan development commission and the clerk of the council. If such commitments are filed prior to the commencement of the public hearing, it shall be in order to move for a vote on the rezoning proposal subject to the modified commitments without full public hearing. If such motion is made, any person still desiring to be heard shall have two (2) minutes each to explain why a full public hearing should still be held by the council. If that motion fails, the council shall proceed with the public hearing under this section, but if that motion is carried, the vote shall immediately be taken on the rezoning proposal subject to the modifications of commitments filed by petitioners.

(d) Order of public hearings:
(1) Geuneiller Councilor requesting hearing (two (2) minutes);
(2) Petitioners' presentation (twenty (20) minutes or less);

(3) Remonstrators’ presentation (twenty (20) minutes or less);

(4) Public comment from any citizen who has an interest distinct from that represented by petitioners or remonstrators (two (2) minutes or less each);

(5) Petitioners to close (remainder of twenty (20) minutes if any);
GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2023

[Page 5 of 22]
G.O. No. 55, 2023
Page 5

(6) Remonstrators to close (remainder of twenty (20) minutes if any);
(7) Council questioning and debate:
a. Fach couneiller councilor has the floor only once for not more than two (2) minutes; and

b. All questions by couneilers councilors and the responses shall be counted within the time allocated in subparagraph a.;

(8) Councillors Councilors requesting hearing have five (5) minutes to close debate; and (9) Hearing ends; petition is decided.

(e) Time computation. The petitioners and remonstrators each shall have twenty (20) minutes total per side for presentation and closing, which may be used at their discretion. All testimony, except public comment and questions by seuneillers councilors and the response thereto, shall be treated as part of either the petitioners’ or remonstrators’ time whether or not called by a party.

(f) Additional time requests. If either party is of the opinion that the issues are sufficiently complex to justify additional time, such request shall be made at the staff conference and decided by the council prior to the hearing. No additional time shall be allowed after the hearing begins except by action suspending these rules.

(g) Council vote. After the public hearing on a proposal for a rezoning ordinance, by a vote of fifteen (15) of the members of the city-county council, the decision of the metropolitan development commission is adopted or rejected as the case may be. Any vote of less than fifteen (15) shall be indecisive; and the decision of the metropolitan development commission shall take effect pursuant to IC 36-7-4-608(c)(3) on the final action date (as extended).

Sec. 151-86. Adjournment motions recognizing deceased persons—Generally.

At the conclusion of each council meeting immediately prior to traditional adjournment, the clerk or a member of the council as designated by the president shall have the opportunity to adjourn the meeting in recognition of and respect for the life and contributions of specifically named deceased persons. The name(s) of such deceased persons shall be submitted to the clerk by the sponsoring seunciller councilor by 5:00 p.m.
at least two (2) workdays before the regularly scheduled meeting of the council at which the motion is to be offered. The motion shall be in writing on a form devised and approved by the clerk and shall contain all information necessary to facilitate the full intent and process of this section and section 151-87. The following protocol for offering motions is to be used:

The president: The docketed agenda for this meeting of council having been completed, the chair will now entertain motions for adjournment.

President's designee: Mr. President.
The president’ The chair recognizes (the clerk) Geuncitler Councilor
The seuneiller councilor’ Mr. President, | have been asked to offer the following motion(s) for adjournment:

by Gouncitler Councilor in memory of

by Councilor Councilor in memory of
(This format will be followed through the completion of all names.)
Mr. President, | would like to move the adjournment of this meeting of the Indianapolis City-County

Council in recognition of and respect for the life and contributions of those persons | have here specifically named. | respectfully ask the support of fellow ceuncilers councilors. | further request that

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2023

[Page 6 of 22]
G.O. No. 55, 2023
Page 6

the motion(s) be made a part of the permanent records of this body and that a letter bearing the council seal and the signature of the president be sent to the family of each person advising of this action.

The president’ Thank you, Gouneiller Councilor . Hearing no objections, the motion(s) is/are

received and the requests are so ordered.
Hearing no further motions for adjournment, we are adjourned. (gavel)
Sec. 151-87. Same—Letter sent to involved families.
The letter sent to the involved families will take the following form:
Dear
lam very pleased to advise you that upon motion made by Gouncifler Councilor , the session of the Indianapolis City-County Council was adjourned "in recognition of and respect

for the life and contributions of ”

Couneiliér Councilor ’s motion was supported by the full Council and is now a part of our permanent records.

America has been made great by those persons who have made the landmark contributions as well as those whose very presence in the community is a stabilizing influence which lends a sense of purpose and direction. We join you at this time in remembering

Sec. 151-94. Journal.

The journal of the council shall contain a complete and accurate record of the official proceedings of the city-county council and each special service district council and shall be prepared and kept in the following manner:

(1) Contents. The clerk shall enter in the journal at least the following information:

a. The complete text of all correspondence from the mayor;

b. The numbers and titles of all proposed ordinances and resolutions when introduced;

c. A brief statement of the contents of any petition or other paper presented for consideration;
d, The complete text of each ordinance, resolution or other proposal when before the council for adoption and each amendment proposed thereto;

e. Every vote of the council, including the yeas and nays;

f. Such other matters as are necessary to keep an accurate record of the proceedings of the councils.

(2) Publication. After the journal is approved, the clerk shall have one hundred (100) copies of the journal of each meeting printed. One (1) copy shall be delivered to each member of the city-county council as soon as possible. At least fifty (60) copies shall be preserved to be bound with a proper index after the end of each year as the permanent official journal of the councils; one (1) bound copy shall be delivered to each ceuinsitier councilor who served during that year.

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2023

[Page 7 of 22]
G.O. No. 55, 2023
Page 7

Sec. 151-95. Calendar and agenda.
The clerk shail prepare a calendar of pending matters and agendas for each meeting of a council, as follows:

(1) Acurrent calendar shall be available to members of the council within three (3) days after each meeting indicating the status of each matter pending before the coun:

(2) a. The council staff will prepare in advance of each council meeting a preliminary agenda.

b. The preliminary agenda shall list all items of business on which action is anticipated as of the date of such preliminary agenda, but might not contain:

1. Economic development bond proposals not yet heard by the economic development committee;

2. Rezoning proposals not then certified by the administrator of zoning;
3. Resolutions not then submitted to the clerk; and

4. Items which may be added to the agenda by suspension of the rules or other lawful procedures.

c. The preliminary agenda shall be availabie to the public by 2:00 p.m. on the last business day prior to the date of the meeting and shall be mailed fo the ceuneilers councilors requesting the same that afternoon.

(3) The clerk shall prepare an agenda prior to each meeting of the council showing all matters eligible for consideration under each order of business.

Sec. 151-101. Duties of the general counsel generally.

(a) The general counsel shall be responsible to see that all ordinances and resolutions requested by members of the council are drafted, shall review and approve all proposed ordinances and resolutions as to form and jegality, shall advise the clerk as to all matters regarding publication and codification of ordinances and shall give legal advice as requested by the councils, their committees and their members.

(b) The general counsel shall be responsible for editing and supervising of the codification of the ordinances and is authorized to renumber and rearrange sections of ordinances or the codification as deemed appropriate.

(c) The general counsel shall also attend meetings of the majority and minority caucuses upon request of the respective caucus leaders, to discuss or advise as respects council business or procedures, unless the general counsel determines that an ethical conflict would arise from such request.

(d) The general counsel shall represent the council, or eduncilers councilors (or supervise counsel retained for such purposes, as approved by the president) whenever the corporation counsel has refused to do so or when authorized by resolution of the council.

(e) The general counsel shall not represent a councilor councilor on a private matter or in a private capacity. This shall not prohibit the general counsel from appearing for councillor councilors individually in ci matters arising out of actions taken by councillors councilors which they in good faith believed were within the scope of their official duties and such representation is authorized under subsection (d) of this section.

Sec. 151-102. Caucus attorneys and consultants.

(a) Within the appropriations specified and available for such purposes, the majority leader and minority leader may recommend contracting for attorneys or consultants for their respective caucuses. Such recommendations shall be submitted to the general counsel for distribution to the members of the committee on committees. Upon approval of any such recommendation by another member of that committee, the clerk shall contract for such services.

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2023

[Page 8 of 22]
G.O. No. 55, 2023
Page 8

(b) If an attorney is employed or retained to provide legal services to a caucus, the client shall be the caucus. Such attorney may appear on behalf of the respective caucus at committee meetings but shall not be entitled to appear before the full council, except by vote of the full council. Such attorney shall not represent a eounciller councilor on a private matter or in a private capacity.

(c) No caucus consultant shail be compensated for time spent on partisan political activities.

(d) Statements for services of caucus consultants shall be verified by the respective caucus leader before being submitted to the clerk for payment.

Sec. 151-901. Use of assigned portable computers.

(a) Portable computers assigned to full-time council employees shall be used only for official governmental purposes and personal records relating to the performance of governmental duties.

(b) Portable computers assigned to councillors councilors and part-time staff shall be used predominately for governmental purposes and for personal records relating to the performance of governmental duties.

(c) Portable computers shall be used only by the person to which assigned, and others shall not be allowed to control or use governmental equipment.

(d) Any software installed on the computer which is not provided by the city shail only be installed as authorized by the licenses pertaining to such software. Any such software shall be removed prior to returning the computer to the city, upon which retum the clerk will cause such software to be removed prior to reissuance of the computer.

Sec. 151-903. On-line services.

Any seunciller councilor or staff member, to whom a portable computer is assigned, may install on-line internet connection services on such computer, but all charges for such services and connections shall be paid by the user or subscriber. Such charges shall not be reimbursed by the council.

(G.O. 42, 1998, § 1)

ARTICLE XI. ETHICS CODE FOR COUNCILLORS COUNCILORS

Sec. 151-1101. Establishment and review of standards of ethical conduct for coeunciliers councilors.

Prior to March 31 of each year, the members of the ethics committee shall individually review the standards of ethical conduct for councilors and may devise and propose any amendments for the ethics committee to review. Any amendments proposed by committee members shall be submitted to the chair of the ethics committee. No later than thirty (30) days after submission of any proposed changes, the chair shall schedule a meeting of the ethics committee to review proposed changes to the standards of ethical conduct for councilors.
If no committee member deems necessary any changes or amendments to the current standards of ethical conduct, the ethics committee shall not meet. On an annual basis, the chair of the ethics committee must confirm to the clerk that all members of the ethics committee have reviewed and consented to the establishment and review of standards for ethical conduct for councilors.

Sec. 151-1102. Review of alleged violations.
In addition to the duties provided in section 151-1101, the ethics committee may do any of the following:
(1) Receive and hear any complaint filed pursuant to Division 2 of this Article, that alleges any violation of

the standards of ethical conduct for sounciilers councilors, regardless of when the misconduct or violation is alleged to have occurred;

(2) Obtain information with respect to any complaint filed pursuant to Division 2 of this Article and, as provided therein, to compel the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of documents;

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2023

[Page 9 of 22]
G.O. No. 55, 2023
Page 9

(3) Recommend to the council that, because of his or her violation of the standards of ethical conduct for seuneillors Councilors, a councillor councilot be subject to censure or such other punishment as the council may deem proper, or the law may provide, as will best maintain, in the minds of the public, a good opinion of the conduct and character of ceuneifiers: councilors; and

(4) Act as an advisor to eeuncilors councilors on ethics questions.
Sec. 151-1121. Allegations of violations of ethical standards.

(a) Any allegation of violations of the ethical standards of this chapter must be initiated by a councillor councilor in one of the following manners:

(1) Anallegation by a Gouneiller Councilor of violations of ethical standards by a councillor councilor during a meeting of the council or any committee of the council shall be made by the counciler councilor stating the allegation which shail be noted in the minutes. No further statement of allegation is required, but the Councillor Councilor making the allegation may file a further statement of allegation that complies with section 151-1122.

(2) An allegation of violations of ethical standards by a couneiller councilor with respect to conduct of a
‘euncillor councilor not during a meeting of the council or a council committee shall be made by filing a statement of allegation, that complies with section 151-1122, with the clerk of the council.

(b) The allegation shall be referred to the chairperson of the ethics committee by the president of the council if made during a council meeting, by the chairperson of the committee if made during a committee meeting, or by the clerk if filed with the clerk.

(c) As used in this division, “complainant" means the ceuncier councilor alleging the violation, and "respondent" means the eeuincifler councilor against whom the allegation is made.

(d) If the respondent or the complainant is the chairperson of the ethics committee, the member of the committee, who has served the longest on the council, shall fulfill the duties of the chairperson with respect to such statement of allegation.

(e) If a member of the ethics committee is the complainant or the respondent, such member or members shall recuse themselves from consideration of such statement of allegation. The committee on committees shall name another counsiler councilor or councillers councilors of the councilors councilor's political party, to serve during the consideration of the statement of allegations.

(f) If the general counsel, chairperson of the ethics committee or the committee determines that the general counsel has a personal interest or involvement in the matters described in the statement of allegation, the committee shall retain another attorney to perform the duties assigned by this chapter to the general counsel with respect to proceedings with respect to that staternent of allegation.

Sec. 151-1122. Statement of allegation.
The statement of allegation shall contain the following:

(1) A description of the conduct by the seuncifler councilor that is alleged to be a violation of the ethical standards and the standard of conduct that applies;

(2) The time and place the alleged conduct occurred;
(3) The names of other persons present when the conduct occurred;

(4) The full name, address and phone numbers of any persons who provided information to the éouncillor
Councilor upon which the statement of allegation is based;

(5) Any documents which form the basis of the allegation; and
GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2023

[Page 10 of 22]
G.O. No. 55, 2023
Page 10

(6) An affirmation under penalties of perjury that the statement of allegation is true or based on information considered in good faith to be correct.

Sec. 151-1123. Referral of statement of allegation.

(a) The clerk of the council, within ten (10) days of the filing of the statement of allegation or notation of allegation by a councillor ‘councilor in the minutes, shall refer the matter to the chairperson of the ethics committee. The clerk shall provide copies of the allegation to the members of the ethics committee and to the councillor councilor against whom the allegation is made.

(b) The chairperson of the ethics committee, shall set a date for the ethics committee to meet in executive session for an informal review of the matter by the ethics committee not later than thirty (30) days after the filing under subsection (a).

(c) The chairperson shall forward the statement of allegation or notation in the minutes to the general counsel, who shall issue an opinion under section 151-1124.

(d) Notice of the action taken by the chairperson shall be given to the complainant, the respondent and the members of the ethics committee.

Sec. 151-1128. Action by council.

(a) Respondent has the right to appeal to the council any recommendation by the ethics committee and request a hearing. Such request shall be filed with the clerk of the council within ten (10) days after the ethics committee adopts its recommendation. On filing of the appeal the clerk shall forthwith prepare a transcript or video record of the committee hearing, along with all exhibits and minutes of the hearing and committee deliberations and deliver copies to each eouneillor councilor:

(b) If an appeal is filed by respondent, action on the committee report and resolution shall be postponed until after the hearing is concluded.

(c) At the first regular meeting of the council after an appeal is filed, the council by simple majority vote of those voting shall decide whether the appeal shall be held on the record of the ethics committee hearing or a hearing de novo shall be held. The president of the council shall schedule such hearing before the council at a regular or called meeting within thirty (30) days of the filing of the request by respondent.

(d) If the council schedules a hearing on the record, no additional evidence shall be received at the hearing. The respondent and complainant, in that order, shall each have fifteen (15) minutes to present arguments on the appeal.

(e) Ifa hearing de novo is held:

(1) The president, or if president be the respondent, the vice-president, may preside or may appoint the general counsel or another qualified person to preside; and if the person who is appointed to preside is not a sounciller councilor, such person shall not be entitled to vote and whenever the complainant, respondent or a council member objects to a ruling of the presiding officer, such ruling may be appealed to the council, which ruling shall be sustained unless a majority of the council vote to overrule the presiding officer;

(2) The presiding officer, with consent of the council, may establish reasonable limits for presentation and

closing arguments;

(3) Complainant shall present evidence to support the statement of allegation and may be represented by counsel employed by complainant;

(4) Respondent may present evidence in response to complainant's evidence and may be represented by counsel employed by respondent;

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2023

[Page 11 of 22]
G.O. No. 55, 2023
Page 11

(5) Complainant and respondent shall in order be allowed closing arguments; and (6) The hearing shail be open to the public.

(f) The council shall act on the recommendation of the ethics committee by adopting the recommendation, modifying the recommendation, or determining that no action be taken.

DIVISION 3. STANDARDS OF ETHICAL CONDUCT FOR GOUNGILLORS. COUNCILORS
Sec. 151-1130. General ethical considerations.

(a) Purposes. Ethical standards for members of the city-county council are essential to maintaining public trust in the handling of public affairs of the city and county. The purpose of this article is to set forth those acts and actions that are incompatible with the best interests of the city and county by directing disclosure by councillors councilors of private financial or other interests in matters affecting the city or county. By requiring ethics disclosures and providing a guide for ethical conduct, the council can promote the faith and confidence of its citizens in its government.

(b) Duty to act in public interest. It is the duty of all councillors councilors to act at all times in the best interest of the public and to avoid any appearance of acting in their own private interest.

(c) Acknowledgment of part time councilors councilors. It is recognized that service as a member of the city-county council is a part-time endeavor and that members of the city-county council are active in the community and elsewhere and that it is necessary that they maintain a livelihood and source of income apart from their council compensation.

(d) Duty to disclose employment and material business interests. \t is the duty of each eeunciler councilor to disclose his or her employments and positions of contro! or ownership interests in businesses or civic organizations that have business relationships with, contracts with, or are funded by, the city or county.

Sec. 151-1131. Conflicts of interest, voting.

(a) Voting. This section establishes standards for determining when a eeunciller councilor is disqualified from acting or may be permitted to abstain from acting in conflict of interest situations.

(b) Actual coriflicts of interest.

(1) Defined. A councifler.councilor has an actual conflict of interest whenever the outcome of a vote on a matter before the council would either:

a. Confer a direct material pecuniary benefit with a value in excess of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) which would be received (i) by the councillor councilor, the councilors councilor's spouse or councillors councilor's dependent children or (ii) by any business in which the councillor councilor, the ceuneillor’s councilor's spouse or councilors councilors dependent children have an interest that is required to be disclosed under section 151-1132, which benefit would be materially different from the benefits conferred generally on the public or the eeuneiller's councilor's constituents; or

b. Affect a private personal interest by either conferring any preference or causing any detriment to the councillor councilor, the councillors councilors business, or counsillers councilors family which would be different from that which would apply to the public or the councillors councilors constituents generally.

A councillor councilor, who is also an employee of an agency whose budget is subject to approval by the city-county council, shall not be deemed to have an actual conflict of interest either (i) with respect fo votes on budgets or revenue proposals, unless the proposal pertains primarily to such employee or the employee's supervisor, or (ii) with respect to votes on proposals setting the compensation of councillers.councilors.

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2023

[Page 12 of 22]
(2)

(3)

(c)
(1)

(2)

G.O. No. 55, 2023
Page 12

Disclosure of actual conflicts. As soon as it becomes apparent that a counciller.councilor has an actual conflict of interest with respect to a matter before the council, the councillor councilor shall immediately disclose the conflict and thereafter not participate in the debate.

Disqualification from voting. A councillor councilor with an actual conflict of interest shall be disqualified from voting on the matter.

Appearance of a conflict of interest.

Voluntary abstention. Whenever a personal relationship, business interest, or civic involvement of a councillor councilor (other than those relationships inherent in the political process and in advocating constituent concerns) is such that it might appear to limit the Geuncillor's councilor's objectivity on the merits of the councillors councilor’s vote, the counciler councilor may request to abstain from voting on such matter. The abstention shall be allowed, unless the abstention prevents the council from deciding the matter, in which circumstances the council by a majority vote of those voting may require the seuncilor councilor to vote. A vote under such circumstances shall not be grounds for ethical complaints against such councilor councilor.

Debate and disclosure. The appearance of a conflict of interest shall not disqualify a councilor cotincilor:from debate on the matter if the nature of the perceived conflict of interest is disclosed as soon as it becomes apparent to the councilor councilor.

Sec. 151-1132. Ethics disclosure.

(a)

All councilors ‘councilors shal

le with the clerk of the council an ethics disclosure statement on or

before July 1, 2009, and thereafter annually, on or before February 1, or within thirty (30) days of taking office.

(b)

Any person filing as a candidate for office of city-county counciler councilor, who has not filed, during

the current calendar year, an ethics disclosure statement under this section, shall file an ethics disclosure statement under this section before, or at the same time as, filing a declaration of candidacy under IC 3-8-2, a petition of nominations under IC 3-8-6 or a declaration of intent to be a write-in candidate under IC 3-8-2-2.5.

(c)
(1)
(2)

(3)

(4)

An ethics disclosure statement required under this section shall include the following information:
The name, residence address and business address(es) of the councillor councilor.

The names and addresses of all employers from whom the eeunciler councilor received compensation during the prior calendar year, and if self-employed, the nature of the business or businesses conducted as self-employment and the name or names, if any, under which the business or businesses are conducted.

The name and addresses of all employers from whom the counciflers.councilor's spouse or seuncillers councilors dependent children received compensation in excess of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) during the prior calendar year.

The name and address of any business entity, doing business with the city or county, or which solicits doing business with the city or county, in which the councillor councilor, the councillors councilor’s spouse or a couneillers councilors dependent child

(i) Is an officer; or

(i) Owns an equity interest or interest in the earnings and profits of such business that, individually or in the aggregate, exceeds ten (10) percent; or

(ii) Directly or indirectly received compensation in excess of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00), in aggregate from any one such entity, in the past calendar year.

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2023

[Page 13 of 22]
G.O. No. 55, 2023
Page 13

(5) The name and address of any organization which receives or applies for funding from the city or county for which the councillor councilor, councillors ‘councilors spouse or a councillofs.councilors dependent child serves as an officer or board member.

(6) A list of those persons or firms from which the eeuneiller councilor received gifts, or any other item, valued over one hundred dollars ($100.00), or in aggregate over two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00), in the prior calendar year if such person or firm does, or seeks to do, business with the city or county or seeks to influence council action. Campaign donations, subject to IC 3-9-2 and reported in accordance with law, and gifts from persons, including family members, with whom the eeunciter. councilor has an on going social relationship not related to service on the council, are not subject to reporting under this provision.

(7) Any items reported under clauses (1) through (4) of this subsection shall be updated within forty-five (45) days of the change of such information.

(d) The clerk of the council, with assistance of the general counsel, shall prescribe a form for these disclosures. Such statement shall be verified under penalties for perjury. The clerk shall report any failures to file an ethics disclosure statement to the ethics committee of the council for such action as that committee may deem appropriate.

Sec. 151-1134. Specific conduct prohibited.

(a) Political activity, patronage. Gourcillers Couricilors shall not require any council employee to engage in political activity or contribute to any political campaign.

(b) Use of council property. Geuncillers Councilors shall not use council equipment or supplies for personal, political, or private business purposes.

(c) Travel to conferences. No seunsiller councilor shall accept reimbursement for travel, meals or lodging expenses related to municipal conferences unless the couneiller councilor attends two (2) hours or more of meetings or official functions per half-day.

Sec. 175-201. Extension of local disaster emergency.

Ifthe mayor declares a local disaster emergency under I.C. 10-14-3-29, and requests the council to consent to its continuation or renewal for more than seven (7) days, the clerk of the council shall promptly notify the president of the council and all other councillors councilors of such request.

Sec. 175-202, Consent by council.

When notified of a request by the mayor under section 175-201, the president shail attempt to schedule a special meeting before the local disaster emergency declaration of the mayor expires. If, because of the nature of the emergency or other circumstances, the President determines, after consultation with the majority leader and minority leader, that a special meeting is not possible before the emergency expires, authority to consent fo such extension is delegated to the president of the council in accordance with the following procedure. The president shall attempt to contact all councillers councilors by telephone or e-mail to obtain consent to the extension of the emergency declaration. If the president obtains the consent of a majority of the councillors councilors to seek extension, the president shall advise the mayor of the council's consent to such extension of the declaration.

Sec. 192-102. Compensation of councillors councilors.

The compensation of members of the city-county council is fixed pursuant to 1C 36-3-6-2 for the calendar year 2024 and thereafter until modified in accordance with article III of this chapter, as:

(a) Each member of the city-county council shall receive an annual salary of thirty-one thousand, seventy-

five dollars ($31,075.00). In addition, councillors councilors shall receive the same cost of living adjustment (COLA) that city and county employees receive under section 192-302(b).

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2023

[Page 14 of 22]
(b)

(c)

(d)

G.O. No. 55, 2023
Page 14

Each member of the city-county council shail receive, in addition to the annual salary, a per diem allowance of one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) for each regular council meeting attended, attendance to be determined solely on the basis of the roll call taken at the opening of each regular meeting.

Each member of the city-county council, in addition to the annual salary and per diem for council meetings, shall receive a per diem of seventy-five dollars ($75.00) for attendance at each meeting of a committee of which they are a member. The council may authorize the per diem fee to be paid to a member representing the council on a specific council assignment.

In addition to the annual salary and per diem fees, the officers of the council shall receive the following additional compensation:

(1) The president shall be paid an additional annual compensation of three thousand, two hundred fifty dollars ($3,250.00);

(2) The vice president, majority leader and minority leader shall be paid an additional annual compensation of two thousand, two hundred fifty dollars ($2,250.00);

(3) The chairman of each standing committee shall be paid an additional annual compensation of one thousand, two hundred fifty dollars ($1,250.00); and

(4) The chairman of each special committee shall be paid an additional monthly compensation of sixty-six dollars ($66.00) for each calendar month during which the committee meets.

No member shall be entitled to but one additional compensation as provided in this paragraph (d). The right to each such additional compensation shall be established by the council rules and resolutions providing for the organization of the council or the establishment of the special committee.

(e)

Members of the city-county council, as part-time employees, may participate in employee benefit programs on the same basis as other elected and part-time employees of the City of Indianapolis.

Sec. 285-801. High performance government team established.

(a)
(b)

The high performance government team is established.

The purpose of the high performance government team is to review the operations of ail taxing units

in the City of Indianapolis and Marion County, to assist those units in finding ways to operate more efficiently and effectively, and to make recommendations to the mayor, city-county council, relevant elected officials and the taxing units regarding how to implement the team’s findings.

(c)
(1)

(2)

(3)
(4)

(d)

The team consists of the following thirteen (13) members:

Two co-chairpersons, with one (1) appointed by the mayor and one appointed by the city-county council;

Eleven (11) members appointed by the co-chairpersons in collaboration with the mayor, city-county council and Greater indianapolis Chamber of Commerce;

The city controller or his or her designee as a non-voting, ex-officio member; and

Two city-county councitiers councilors of different political parties appointed by the council as non- voting, ex-officio members.

All members shall serve at the pleasure of the appointing authority, in person and not by proxy, and

without compensation.

(e)
(f)

Members must be residents of, or employed in, Marion County, Indiana.

Voting members shall not be elected officials or employees of elected officials.

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2023

[Page 15 of 22]
G.O. No. 55, 2023
Page 15

(g) Voting members shall have significant experience in the corporate sector, preferably with significant process improvement experience in total quality management, six-sigma, project management, or a particular functional discipline.

(h) The appointment of each team member shall be for a term of two (2) calendar years and until his or her successor is appointed and qualified. If a vacancy occurs, the appointment of a successor shall be for the unexpired portion of the term. Each member may be appointed to successive terms.

(i) A quorum of the team for official action shall be seven voting members.

() The team shall meet as often as necessary, at such place and time as may be set by the co- chairpersons. All official action of the team shall be executed by the co-chairpersons upon being authorized by a motion passed by a simple majority of voting members present.

(k) The team shall adopt rules for the conduct and procedures of the team's meetings that are consistent with the Indiana Open Door Law and the Access to Public Records Act.

(1) The team is a public agency for purposes of IC 5-14-1.5 and IC 5-14-3.

(m) The team shail seek city-county council re-authorization every two years.
Sec. 293-101. Name and purpose.

(a) This chapter shall be referred to as the ethics code of the consolidated city and county.

(b) The purpose of this chapter is to set clear and high ethical standards for the official conduct of officials, appointees, and employees of city and county government and persons who have a business relationship with city or county government so that the public will have confidence that the conduct of city and county business is always conducive to the public good.

(c) Public confidence in the integrity of government is essential to the exercise of good government.
Accordingly, those persons under the jurisdiction of the ethics commission should be committed to the following goals:

(1) Duties should be carried out impartially;

(2) Decisions and policy should not be made outside of proper channels of city and county government,

(3) Public office should not be used for private gain; and

(4) Actions, transactions, or involvements that have the potential to become a conflict of interest should not be performed or engaged in.

(d) This chapter is not meant unduly to restrict or limit the behavior of the officials, appointees, or employees during the time when they are not on duty. Each couneiier councilor, official, appointee, or employee retains lawful rights and privileges as a private citizen fo interests of a personal or private financial nature.
These rights and privileges will be honored to the extent that they are compatible with an individual's elected office, appointed position, or employment.

Sec. 293-102. Definitions.

As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section.

Advisory body means an authority, board, commi n, committee, task force, or other body designated by any name of the city or county government that is authorized to make only nonbinding recommendations.

Agency means an authority, board, branch, bureau, commission, committee, council other than the city- county council, department, division, office, service, or other instrumentality of city or county government that

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2023

[Page 16 of 22]
G.O. No. 55, 2023
Page 16

is established by statute, ordinance, executive order, or other law. The term agency includes the office of mayor and the county offices of the assessor, auditor, clerk, coroner, recorder, sheriff, surveyor, and treasurer. The term does not include any advisory body. The term does not include the city-county council or state offices with county jurisdiction, which are the office of county prosecutor and the judges of the circuit court or superior courts; however, all individuals excluded are invited to comply with this ethics code.

Appointee means a person, other than an official or employee, who is appointed to an agency, a municipal corporation, or a governmental entity in the county whose budget fs subject fo the review of the city-county council.

Assist or assistance means to help, aid, advise, or furnish information to a person, and includes an offer to assist.

Business relationship means:
(1) Dealings with an agency by a person who has:
a. A financial interest in a contract with, or purchase by, an agency; or b. A license or permit requiring the exercise of judgment or discretion by the agency; or (2) Lobbying activity by a lobbyist, as those terms are defined in section 909-101 of the Code.

Candidate for elected office means a candidate for the office of mayor and the county offices of the assessor, auditor, clerk, coroner, recorder, sheriff, surveyor, or treasurer.

Compensation means any money, thing of value, or financial benefit conferred on, or received by, any person in return for services rendered, or for services to be rendered, whether by that person or another.

Councilor Councilor means a member of the city-county council.

Employee means an individual, other than a souncitler councilor, an official or appointee, who is employed by an agency (other than the city-county council) on a full-time, a part-time, a temporary, an intermittent, or an hourly basis, or via an employment contract.

Entertainment means the free admission or token of admission to a sporting contest, concert, theatrical production, convocation, parade, convention, festival, or other similar show or presentation that is intended for the divertissement of members of the public upon paid admission.

Ethics commission refers to the city-county ethics commission created under section 293-331.

Fair market value means the price that would be paid by a willing buyer to a willing seller in a good faith transaction in which objectively adequate consideration is provided.

Financial interest means an interest that will result in an ascertainable increase or decrease in the income or net worth of the official, appointee, or employee or a member of that individual's immediate family, but does not include an interest:

(1) Of a couneiler cotincilor, official, appointee, or employee in the common stock of a corporation unless the combined holdings in the corporation of the ceunciller councilor, official, appointee, or employee, that individual's spouse, and that individual's dependent are more than one (1) percent of the outstanding shares of the common stock of the corporation; or

(2) That is held as an asset in a blind trust.
Immediate family means an individual's spouse or dependent.

information of a confidential nature means information obtained by reason of the position or office held, and that:

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2023

[Page 17 of 22]
G.O. No. 55, 2023
Page 17

(1) A public agency is prohibited from disclosing under IC 5-14-3-4(a);

(2) Apu
not

agency has the discretion not to disclose under IC 5-14-3-4(b) and that the agency has closed; or

(3) Is not in a public record, but if it were, would be confidential.

Official means the mayor and the individuals who hold the county offices of the assessor, auditor, clerk, coroner, recorder, sheriff, surveyor, and treasurer.

Person means an individual, proprietorship, partnership, unincorporated association, trust, business trust, group, limited liability company, or corporation, whether or not operated for profit, or a governmental entity.

Political activity means taking action to support an individual in his or her campaign for elected office, or soliciting contributions for a political party or another candidate for any elected public office.

Property means money, real property, personal property, goods, supplies, services, deeds, trade secrets, contract rights, or other interests in or claims to wealth.

Relative means any person related as grandfather, grandmother, father, mother, stepfather, stepmother, brother, sister, stepbrother, stepsister, uncle, aunt, husband, wife, son, daughter, stepchild, father-in-law, mother-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, grandchild, step grandchild, niece, or nephew.

Represent means to attend an agency proceeding, write a letter, or communicate with an official, appointee, or employee of an agency on behalf of a person.

Sanctions means any of the following actions:

(1) Canceling a contract, or barring a person from entering into a contract with an agency for a certain period of time;

(2) Making restitution or disgorgement;
(3) Removal from office, appointment, or employment;

(4) Barring an individual from future employment or appointment with the city or county for a certain period of time;

(5) Revocation or suspension of a license, registration, or permit issued by an agency, including but not limited to a lobbyist registration under chapter 909 of the Code, or barring a person from obtaining such a license, registration, or permit for a certain period of time; or

(6) Disciplinary action.
Travel expenses means the costs of transportation, lodging, and meals. The term includes actual travel expenses or an amount approximating those expenses that wouid be allowed by travel policies and procedures authorized by the city controlier.

Sec. 293-205. Appointment restrictions.

(a} No appointee shall fail to attend more than one-third of the meetings of the agency to which the appointee is appointed in a twelve-month period.

(b) No souncifier councilor, official, or employee may serve as an appointed member of any agency unless the statute, ordinance, or executive order establishing the agency expressly contemplates membership by that type of member.

Sec. 293-209. Additional or excess compensation.

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2023

[Page 18 of 22]
G.O. No. 55, 2023
Page 18
A councillor councilor, official, appointee, or employee may not solicit or receive compensation:

(1) For the sale or lease of any property or service to a person with a business relationship with the
¢eunciller councilor or an official's, appointee's, or employee's agency that substantially exceeds the amount that the couneiller councilor, official, appointee, or employee would charge in the ordinary course of business; or

(2) For the performance of official duties other than as provided by law.

Sec. 293-213. Benefiting from or divulging confidential information.

(a} A councillor councilor, offi appointee, employee, former counciller councilor, former official, former appointee, or former employee shall not materially benefit from information of a confidential nature except as permitted by law.

(b) Acouncilor, official, appointee, or employee shall not divulge information of a confidential nature except as permitted by law.

Sec. 293-303. Advisory opinions.

(a) An advisory opinion from the office of corporation counsel may be requested by:

(1) The mayor, a couneillér:councilor, or an ethics commission member,

(2) Any official, appointee, employee, or former employee; or

(3) A person with a business relationship with an agency.

(b) Requests for an advisory opinion shall be in writing, signed by the person making the request, and designated an inquiry. The inquiry shall state the official status of the person making the request and all material facts necessary for the office of corporation counsel to understand the circumstances and render a complete advisory opinion. The inquiry, if requested by someone under subsection (a)(2) or (a)(3), must relate specifically

to that person.

(c) All advisory opinions shall be issued in writing, designated as an Offi the corporation counsel, and shall be conditioned upon the following:

{ Advisory Opinion, signed by

(1) The facts and circumstances actually exist, and
(2) All of the relevant facts and circumstances related to the advisory opinion have been disclosed.

(d) Any person directly affected by the advisory opinion may seek written clarification of the advisory
Opinion from the office of corporation counsel. Any such request for clarification shall be made in writing to the office of corporation counsel.

(e) Any person directly affected by the advisory opinion may appeal to the corporation counsel or the ethics commission for reconsideration or clarification of the advisory opinion. Any such appeal shail be made in writing.

(f) Ifa person who has requested an advisory opinion has been advised that certain action or inaction will lead to a violation of this chapter and has failed to comply after having been given a reasonable opportunity to do so, the corporation counsel shall refer the matter to the ethics commission so that it may review the matter to determine compliance with the advisory opinion and, in executive session, vote to initiate an investigation.

(g) A person who relies on an advisory opinion is not subject to sanctions with respect to that subject matter; however, work product of the office of corporation counsel that is not an advisory opinion does not shield the person from sanctions.

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2023

[Page 19 of 22]
G.O. No. 55, 2023
Page 19

(h) The office of corporation counsel, on at least a quarterly basis, shall publish for distribution on its website the accumulated advisory opinions with the names, and other information deemed necessary to protect the identities of persons, removed in a format explaining the facts, the question, and the opinion.

Sec. 293-304. Sexual harassment training.

(a) Definitions. The following definitions apply only to section 304 of chapter 293:

Supervisor means an employee of the city, county or city-county council who is empowered to take tangible employment actions against an employee.

Tangible employment actions are actions that effect a significant change in an employee's employment status including but not limited to: hiring, firing, failing to promote, reassigning to a position with significantly different responsibilities, or making a decision that causes a significant change in benefits.

Interactive training program means: (1) a live program conducted face-to-face, (2) a pre-recorded program that is accessible online, or (3) a program presented in slide format that is accessible online.

(b) In order to promote a workplace and culture free from sexual harassment, each official, counciller councilor, and all city and county department heads, directors, and supervisors shall attend a two-hour interactive sexual harassment awareness and prevention training program developed by the division of human resources and the office of corporation counsel, within six weeks of becoming such an official, councillor councilor, appointee, or supervisor.

(c) In addition to the requirements of subsection (b), each such official, couneiller councilor, and supervisor, shall attend the two-hour training program referenced in subsection (b) at least every fwo (2) years during the individual's tenure.

(d) The office of corporation counsel shall maintain documentation to demonstrate each official's, councillors Councilors and supervisor's compliance with subsections (b) and (c) of this section.

(e) Any official or supervisor required to attend the training program who fails to comply with this section shall be subject to appropriate sanctions under article IV of this chapter.

(f) Any councillor councilor who fails to comply with this section shall be subject to censure by the city- county council ethics committee.

(g) The training required by this section shall begin in calendar year 2020.
Sec. 293-322. Economic statement of interest—When to file.
The economic statement of interest shall be filed with the office of corporation counsel, as follows:

(1) Individuals listed in section 293-321 shall file the statement on or before May 1 of each year, but not earlier than April 1 of each year except as necessary to comply with subdivisions (2) through (4) of this section;

(2) If an individual has not filed under subdivision (1) during the present calendar year and is filing as a candidate for elected office other than ceunciller councilor, the individual shall file the staternent before, or at the same time as, filing a declaration of candidacy under IC 3-8-2, petition of nomination under

IC 3-8-6, or declaration of intent to be a write-in candidate under IC 3-8-2-2.5;

(3) An individual listed in subdivisions (2) through (5) of section 293-321 shall file a statement prior to being appointed to or employed by an agency; and

(4) An individual listed in subdivisions (3) through (5) of section 293-321 shall file a statement within sixty

(60) days after leaving employment, unless a subsequent office, appointment, or employment requires the filing of a statement of economic interest.

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2023

[Page 20 of 22]
G.O. No. 55, 2023
Page 20

Sec. 293-332. Appointment, terms, and qualifications of members.

(a) The ethics commission shall be composed of five (5) members to be appointed by the mayor, subject to the approval of the city-county council. No more than three (3) members shall be affiliated with the same

political party.
(b) At no time may a member be:
(1) A councillor councilor, official, appointee, or employee;

(2) A declared candidate for elected office;

(3) An officer or employee of any political party; however, this shall not include an individual who is elected or appointed to serve as a delegate to a party convention;

(4) A person with a business relationship with an agency or a person who intends to have a business relationship with an agency; or

(8) Aresident of a county other than Marion.

(c) Each appointment shall be made for a term of three (3) years, ending on December 31; however, each member shall serve until his or her successor is duly appointed and qualified. A member appointed to fill a vacancy shall serve for the duration of the unexpired term.

(d) Amember may be removed only upon the two-thirds majority vote of the city-county council.

(e) Members of the ethics commission shall serve without compensation or reimbursement of expenses.
Sec. 293-334. Jurisdiction.

(a) The ethics commission has jurisdiction over officials, appointees, employees, persons with a business relationship with any agency, and individuals filing complaints before the ethics commission with respect to suspected violations of Article {I and Article !f, Division 2, of this chapter.

(b) The ethics commission does not have jurisdiction over the following:

(1) Compiaints filed more than two (2) years after the date of the suspected violation;

(2) Suspected violations of agency policies promulgated under section 293-301; or

(3) Geuncillcrs Councilors or former eeuncillors. councilors, except to the extent an alleged violation is within a councilor's or former councilors councilor's scope of employment with the city or county.

(c) Any complaint filed alleging a violation by a ceunciller councilor shall be referred by the secretary to the ethics committee established by section 151-25.

(d) A complaint or investigation before the ethics commission may be stayed if the matter is subject to pending litigation or notice by law enforcement that a criminal investigation is underway.

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2023

[Page 21 of 22]
G.O. No. 55, 2023
Page 21

Sec. 431-403. Procedure for memorial designations.

(a) Persons desiring the designation of a memorial area shall file with the clerk of the council a petition in support of the proposed designation signed by at least two-thirds (%) of the property owners of record abutting the proposed designated memorial area.

(1) The petition shall designate one (1) person as the spokesperson for the petitioners.

(2) The petition shall recite the exact name, history and rationale for such a memorial designation, a map showing the preferred location of the proposed street or area, and a list of all property owners of record with addresses abutting the streets in the area involved.

(3) A fee of five hundred dollars ($500.00) to assist in the costs for manufacture and placement of the memorial signs shall accompany the petition. This fee shall be placed in the grants and gifts fund maintained by the city controller, and shall be available to the department of public works upon designation of the memorial area. The fee shall be refunded if the council fails to pass a resolution within twelve (12) months designating the memorial area.

(4) Professional or amateur generated, camera-ready artwork of a silhouette likeness of the memorialized person, and/or an identifying symbol or logo for the proposed signs shall be submitted which is acceptable to the department of public works for safety, reproduction and other reasonable considerations. Such artwork shall be free of any copyright or trademark interests and shall save and hold harmless Indianapolis, Marion County and all appendages thereof from any and all claims brought by any entity asserting copyright or trademark interests relating to that rendering.

(b) A councilor councilor may introduce a proposal for a general resolution designating the memorial area.
Such proposal is to be assigned to the metropolitan development committee (or to its most direct successor committee), which shall hold a public hearing on the proposal.

(c) No less than twenty-three (23) days prior to the hearing, the petitioner shall send, by first class mail to all property owners of record and to all registered neighborhood organizations within the proposed memorial area, information about the proposal and the hearing. The petitioner shall file with the clerk a notarized statement that these notices were sent, when they were mailed, to whom, and a copy of the mailed notice.

SECTION 2. The expressed or implied repeal or amendment by this ordinance of any other ordinance or part of any other ordinance does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred, or proceedings begun prior fo the effective date of this ordinance. Those rights, liabilities, and proceedings are continued, and penalties shall be imposed and enforced under the repealed or amended ordinance as if this ordinance had not been adopted.

SECTION 3. Should any provision (section, paragraph, sentence, clause, or any other portion) of this ordinance be declared by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, the remaining provision or provisions shall not be affected, if and only if such remaining provisions can, without the invalid provision or provisions, be given the effect intended by the Coun adopting this ordinance. To this end the provisions of this ordinance are severable.

SECTION 4. This ordinance shall be in effect from and after its passage by the Council and compliance with
Ind. Code § 36-3-4-14.

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2023

[Page 22 of 22]
G.O. No. 55, 2023
Page 22

The foregoing was passed by the City-County Council this 4 day of December, 2023, at 9:08 p.m.

ATTEST:

Vop Osili

Presid ity-County Council

Yulonda Winfield
Clerk, City-County Council

Presented by me to the Mayor this 6th day of December, 2023

Yulonda Winfield
Clerk, City-County Council

Approved and signed by me this Cth day of December, 2023.

(| espe A(R off

Joseph H. Hogsett, Mayor

STATE OF INDIANA, MARION COUNTY)
) SS:
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS )

|, Yulonda Winfield, Clerk of the City-County Council, Indianapolis, Marion County, Indiana, do hereby certify the above and foregoing is a full, true, and complete copy of Proposal No. 306, 2023, a Proposal for a
GENERAL ORDINANCE passed by the City-County Council on the 4"" day of December, 2023, by a vote of 24 YEAS al NAYS, and was retitled General Ordinance No. 55, 2023, which was signed by the Mayor on the De day of December, 2023, and now remains on file and on record in my office.

WITNESS my hand and the official seal of the City of Indianapolis, Indiana, this “fh day of December, 2023.

Yulonda Winfield
Clerk, City-County Council
(SEAL)

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2023
