[Page 1 of 3]
CITY-COUNTY SPECIAL ORDINANCE NO. 20, 2023
Proposal No. 329, 2023

A SPECIAL ORDINANCE of the City-County Council of the City of Indianapolis, Indiana amending
Ordinance No. 15, 2018 concerning the issuance of one or more series of the City of Indianapolis, Indiana
Taxable Economic Development Tax Increment Revenue Bonds (ILMAR/KG 220 Building Projects) in a maximum aggregate principal amount not to exceed $17,500,000.

WHEREAS, on September 24, 2018, the City-County Council adopted Ordinance No. 15, 2018 (the “Bond Ordinance’) which, among other matters, approved the issuance of one or more series of the City of
Indianapolis, Indiana Taxable Economic Development Tax Increment Revenue Bonds (ILMAR/KG 220
Building Projects) in a maximum aggregate principal amount not to exceed $17,500,000 (the “Bonds”) and, if necessary, bond anticipation notes in a maximum aggregate principal amount not to exceed $16,700,000 (the “BANs’); and

WHEREAS, pursuant to the Bond Ordinance the proceeds of the Bonds or, if necessary, BANs were to be provided, in accordance with Indiana Code 36-7-11.9 and 12, to (i) ILMAR LLC (“ILMAR’) to construct istori ing located at 17 West Market Street in the City in connection with the development of the ng into a high end hotel (the “Hotel Building Project’) and (if) KG 220 LLC ("KG 220”) to construct improvements to the building located at 220 North Meridian Street in connection with the development of the building into a mixed-use office, commercial retail and residential development with a related parking garage (the “Mixed-Use Building Project’, together with the Hotel Building Project, the “Projects”); and

WHEREAS, in accordance with the Bond Ordinance, on December 14, 2018 the City issued BANs in the principal amount of $15,855,000 to provide interim funding to ILMAR and KG 220 for the Projects; and

WHEREAS, on October 12, 2022, the City extended the maturity date of said BANs to December 14, 2023; and

WHEREAS, the City-County Council has been advised that the Mixed-Use Building Project has been completed and the Hotel Building Project is expected to be finally completed in April of 2024; and

WHEREAS, the City-County Council has been further advised that the City is preparing to issue Bonds to retire the BANs and pay costs of issuance thereof and that it has identified a purchaser of the Bonds that is willing to purchase the Bonds secured only by the Project TIF Revenues (as defined in the Bond
Ordinance) with one or more taxpayer agreements provided by ILMAR and KG 220 (each a “Taxpayer
Guaranty” and collectively, the “Taxpayer Guaranties’); and

WHEREAS, the Bond Ordinance contemplates that the Bonds may be soid to a purchaser and secured only by the Project TIF Revenues but not with one or more Taxpayer Guaranties; and

WHEREAS, the City-County Council finds that the Bond Ordinance should be amended to permit the sale of the Bonds to a purchaser with the Bonds secured only by the Project TIF Revenues and secured by one or more Taxpayer Guaranties; and

WHEREAS, due to changes in market conditions since the adoption of the Bond Ordinance, the City-
County Council finds that the permitted discount and interest rate on the Bonds as provided in the Bond
Ordinance should also be amended as herein provided; and

WHEREAS, the Metropolitan Development Commission of Marion County, Indiana, acting as the
Redevelopment Commission of the City has adopted an amending resolution permitting the pledge of the
Project TIF Revenues to the payment of the Bonds with such Bonds also secured by one or more Taxpayer
Guaranties; and

WHEREAS, the City-County Council finds that the amendment to the Bond Ordinance herein provided will be of public benefit to the City by permitting the Bonds to be structured in a manner that limits the lien on the tax increment revenues derived from the Projects solely to such Projects without any further backing by the City and also enable the retirement of the BANs; now, therefore:

BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA:

SPECAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2023

[Page 2 of 3]
S.0. No. 20, 2023
Page 2

SECTION 1. The reference to the maximum interest rate on the Bonds as set forth in the first sentence of
Section 4 of the Bond Ordinance is hereby amended from eight and one-half percent (8.5%) per annum to ten percent (10%) per annum.

SECTION 2. The last sentence of Section 4 of the Bond Ordinance is hereby amended and restated as follows:

“Notwithstanding the foregoing and as more particularly set forth in the Financing
Documents, the Bonds may be secured solely by the TIF Revenues derived only from the
Projects (the “Project TIF Revenues”) with one or more Taxpayer Guaranties, in the event the Developers purchase the Bonds or find a purchaser of the Bonds acceptable to the
City, either of which is willing to purchase the Bonds solely secured by the Project TIF
Revenues and one or more Taxpayer Guaranties.”

SECTION 3. The first sentence of Section 6 of the Bond Ordinance is hereby amended and restated as follows:

“The Mayor and City Controller are authorized and directed to sell the Bonds to the purchaser or purchasers thereof at a price not less than 92% of the aggregate principal amount thereof plus accrued interest, if any, at a rate of interest not to exceed ten percent (10%) per annum, and with a final maturity no later than twenty-five (25) years from the date of issuance of the Bonds.”

SECTION 4. If any section, paragraph or provision of this Ordinance shall be held to be invalid or unenforceable for any reason, the invalidity or unenforceability of such section, paragraph or provision shall not affect any of the remaining provisions of this Ordinance.

SECTION 5. All ordinances, resolutions and orders, or parts thereof, in conflict with the provisions of this
Ordinance are, to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed. The Bond Ordinance, except as amended hereby, shall remain in full force and effect.

SECTION 6. It is hereby determined that all formal actions of the City-County Council relating to the adoption of this Ordinance were taken in one or more open meetings of the City-County Council, that all deliberations of the City-County Council and of its committees, if any, which resulted in formal action, were in meetings open to the public, and that all such meetings were convened, held and conducted in compliance with applicable legal requirements, including Indiana Code 5-14-1.5, as amended.

SECTION 7. This Ordinance shall be in full force and effect upon compliance with Indiana Code 36-3-4- 14.

The foregoing was passed by the City-County Council this 4° day of December, 2023, at 8:51 p.m.

ATTEST:

ity-County Council

Yulonda Winfield
Clerk, City-County Council

Presented by me to the Mayor this 6th day of December, 2023

Yulonda Winfield
Clerk, City-County Council

SPECAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2023

[Page 3 of 3]
S.O. No. 20, 2023
Page 3

7 Ply soll

o
H. Hogsett, Mayor

Gh

Approved and signed by me this day of December, 2023.

STATE OF INDIANA, MARION COUNTY)
) Ss:
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS }

|, Yulonda Winfield, Clerk of the City-County Council, Indianapolis, Marion County, Indiana, do hereby certify the above and foregoing is a full, true, and complete copy of Proposal No. 329, 2023, a Proposal for a
SPECIAL ORDINANCE passed by the City-County Council on the 4" day of December, 2023, by a vote of 23 YEAS and 1 NAY, and was retitled Special Ordinance No. 20, 2023, which was signed by the Mayor on the day of December, 2023, and now remains on file and on record in my office.

WITNESS my hand and the official seal of the City of Indianapolis, Indiana, this ze day of December, 2023.

Yulonda Winfield
Clerk, City-County Council
(SEAL)

SPECAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2023
