[Page 1 of 5]
CITY-COUNTY SPECIAL ORDINANCE NO. 22, 2021
Proposal No. 332, 2021

A SPECIAL ORDINANCE of the City-County Council of the city of Indianapolis, Indiana and of Marion
County, Indiana, approving the issuance of local income tax revenue bonds of the Indianapolis Public
Transportation Corporation for the purpose of providing funds to pay the costs of certain public transportation projects within the city and the county, pledging local income tax revenues for public transportation projects in the county public transportation fund to the payment of such bonds, and other related matters

WHEREAS, the City-County Council (the "City-County Council") of the City of Indianapolis, Indiana (the "City") and of Marion County, Indiana (the "County") has, following the approval by the voters of the County at the November 8, 2016 general election, adopted an ordinance pursuant to Indiana Code 6-3.6-7-27 and
Indiana Code 8-25-3-1 imposing an additional local income tax rate of 0.25% (the "Transportation LIT") for public transportation projects in the County; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to Indiana Code 6-3.6-7-27, the local income tax revenues attributable to the
Transportation LIT (the “Transportation LIT Revenues") shall be used to fund public transportation projects and are to be retained by the Auditor of the County and deposited in the County public transportation project fund established under Indiana Code 8-25-3-7 and used for the purposes thereof, including the payment of bonds for public transportation projects; and

WHEREAS, the Indianapolis Public Transportation Corporation (the "IPTC") has been established in accordance with Indiana Code 36-9-4, as amended, to fund public transportation projects and issue bonds for the payment thereof; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to Ordinance No. 2018-01, adopted by the Board of Directors of the IPTC on
February 22, 2018, the IPTC has heretofore issued revenue bonds payable from the Transportation LIT
Revenues, designated “Indianapolis Public Transportation Corporation Locai Income Tax Revenue Bonds,
Series 2018A" (the "2018A Bonds"), currently outstanding in the principal amount of Nineteen Million Two
Hundred Thousand Dollars ($19,200,000); and

WHEREAS, pursuant to Ordinance No. 2020-01, adopted by the Board of Directors of the IPTC on July 27, 2020, the IPTC has heretofore issued revenue bonds payable from the Transportation LIT Revenues, designated "Indianapolis Public Transportation Corporation Local Income Tax Revenue Bonds, Series 2021A" (the "2021A Bonds," and together with the 2018A Bonds, the "Prior Bonds"), currently outstanding in the principal amount of Twenty Million Six Hundred Ninety Thousand Dollars ($20,690,000); and

WHEREAS, pursuant to City-County Council Fiscal Ordinance No. 19-2018 and City-County Special
Ordinance No. 5, 2020 (collectively, the "Prior LIT Pledge Ordinances"), the City-County Council pledged the Transportation LIT Revenues to the IPTC for the payment of the 2018A Bonds and the 2021A Bonds, respectively; and

WHEREAS, the City-County Council has been advised that the Board of Directors of the IPTC has adopted an ordinance (the "IPTC Bond Ordinance") authorizing the issuance of local income tax revenue bonds (the "Bonds"), on a parity basis with the Prior Bonds, and, if necessary, bond anticipation notes (the "BANs"), in one or more series, in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed Sixty-Five Million Dollars ($65,000,000), for the purpose of funding (a) any or all or any portion of the following projects: (i) the construction, renovation, installation and equipping of a building, bus storage, site development and paving, lighting, fencing, heat lamps and drainage improvements located at 2425 W. Michigan Street, {ii) the construction, renovation, installation and equipping of buildings and related improvements at the 9503 E.
33 Street (East Campus), (iii) the construction, installation and equipping of a new bus/vehicle facility for
East Campus, (iv) the acquisition, installation and equipping of a computer aided dispatch system, (v) the acquisition, installation and equipping of UV-C lighting for IPTC fleet and facilities, (vi) the construction and renovation of underpasses along Rural Street, and (vil) the acquisition of twenty-two (22) sixty (60)-foot electric buses; (b) capitalized interest, if necessary; (c) a reserve for the Bonds; and (d) issuance and other related costs (the foregoing (a) through (d), collectively, the "Project"); and

SPECIAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2021

[Page 2 of 5]
$.O. No. 22, 2021
Page 2

WHEREAS, pursuant to the IPTC Bond Ordinance, the Bonds will be payable from and secured by
Transportation LIT Revenues on parity with the Prior Bonds; and

WHEREAS, Indiana Code 8-25-3-7 and Indiana Code 5-1-14-4 require the City-County Council to pledge the Transportation LIT Revenues to the IPTC for the payment of debt service on the Bonds; and

WHEREAS, in addition, Indiana Code 36-3-6-9 requires the City-County Council to review and approve the issuance of the Bonds by the IPTC; and

WHEREAS, Indiana Code 5-1.4 provides that a "qualified entity,” which term includes the IPTC, may issue and sell its bonds or notes to The Indianapolis Local Public improvement Bond Bank (the "Bond
Bank"); and

WHEREAS, the Executive Director of the Bond Bank has expressed a gness to purchase the
Bonds and, if necessary, BANs of the IPTC in a negotiated sale subject to approval by the Board of Directors of the Bond Bank; and

WHEREAS, the IPTC has requested the City-County Council to (i) pledge the Transportation LIT
Revenues to the IPTC for the payment of the Bonds on a parity with the Prior Bonds and (Ii) review and approve the issuance of the Bonds and, if necessary, the BANs by the IPTC; and

WHEREAS, the City-County Council now finds, upon review, that the Transportation LIT Revenues should be pledged to the IPTC for the payment of the Bonds in accordance with the terms of this Ordinance and the issuance of the Bonds, on a parity basis with the Prior Bonds, and, if necessary, the BANs by the
IPTC for the purpose of funding the Project should be approved; now, therefore:

BE iT ORDAINED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA:

SECTION 1. The City-County Council hereby finds (i) that the pledge of all Transportation LIT Revenues deposited to the County public transportation project fund pursuant to Indiana Code 6-3.6-7-27 and Indiana
Code 8-25-3-7 in an amount sufficient for payment of the principal of and interest on the Bonds and, if necessary, to fund and replenish a reserve therefor, will facilitate the funding of the Project which is a public transportation project In accordance with the provisions of Indiana Code 8-25-3, as amended, and (ii) that the carrying out of the Project by the IPTC in accordance with Indiana Code 36-9-4, as amended, is necessary and appropriate.

SECTION 2. The City-County Council, pursuant to Indiana Code 8-25-3-7 and Indiana Code 5-1-14-4, hereby irrevocably pledges the Transportation LIT Revenues to the IPTC for the payment of principal of and interest on the Bonds on parity with the Prior Bonds and, if necessary, the funding and replenishment of a reserve therefor, for a term of years equal to the term of the Bonds. There are no other prior liens, encumbrances or other restrictions on the City-County Council's ability to pledge the Transportation LIT
Revenues with the exception of the pledges securing the Prior Bonds.

SECTION 3. The City-County Council does hereby approve (i) the IPTC Bond Ordinance, of the Bonds, on a parity basis with the Prior Bonds, and, if necessary, BANs of the IPTC in an aggregate principal amount not fo exceed Sixty-Five Million Dollars ($65,000,000) in one or more series, and the use of the proceeds of the Bonds, and, if necessary, the BANs, to fund the Project. In accordance with the
IPTC Bond Ordinance, the Bonds shail mature over a term ending no later than twenty (20) years after their date of delivery and shall bear interest at a rate or rates not exceeding five percent (5.0%) per annum. All other terms of the Bonds shall be as set forth in the IPTC Bond Ordinance.

) the issuance

SECTION 4. There is hereby continued from the Prior LIT Pledge Ordinances within the County public transportation project fund established under Indiana Code 8-25-3-7, an IPTC Bond Account (the "IPTC
Bond Account"). On or before each January 5 and July 5, beginning on the first January 5 or July 5 following delivery of the Bonds, Transportation LIT Revenues in an amount sufficient to pay the maximum debt

SPECIAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2021

[Page 3 of 5]
$.0. No. 22, 2021
Page 3

service coming due on the Bonds and the Prior Bonds, plus any fiscal agency charges during the following six (6)-month period, shall be deposited in the IPTC Bond Account and immediately transferred to the IPTC for deposit into the Bond and Interest Account established and held under the IPTC Bond Ordinance.

SECTION 5. At any time any Future Parity Obligations (as hereinafter defined) are outstanding, on or before each January 5 and July 5 but concurrent with the transfers in Section 4 above, Transportation LIT
Revenues in an amount sufficient to pay the maximum debt service coming due on such Future Parity
Obligations plus any fiscal agency charges during the following six (6)-month period, shall be deposited with the trustee or paying agent for such Future Parity Obligations, on a pro rata basis with the deposits described in Section 4 above, and used to pay the debt service due on such Future Parity Obligations.

SECTION 6. On or before each January 5 and July 5, after satisfying the requirements of Sections 4 and 5 above, the Transportation LIT Revenues shall next be used, if necessary, on a pro rata basis to restore the debt service reserve funds securing the Bonds, the Prior Bonds and any Future Parity Obligations to the respective reserve requirements, if any, for the Bonds, the Prior Bonds and any Future Parity
Obligations.

SECTION 7. The City-County Council reserves the right to pledge Transportation LIT Revenues to future obligations, whether in whole or in part, on a parity with the pledge thereof to the Bonds and the Prior Bonds for the purpose of raising money for future public transportation projects or to refund obligations issued for such purpose (collectively, the "Future Parity Obligations"), subject to the following conditions:

(a) All required payments due under the Bonds, the Prior Bonds and any other obligations payable from Transportation LIT Revenues shall be current to date in accordance with the terms thereof, with no payments in arrears. The reserve requirements for the Bonds, the Prior Bonds and any
Future Parity Obligations, if any, shall be satisfied either at the time of delivery of the Future Parity
Obligations or over a five (5) year or shorter period.

(b) The Transportation LIT Revenues in the fiscal year immediately preceding the issuance of any such
Future Parity Obligations shall be not less than one hundred twenty-five percent (125%) of the maximum annual interest and principal requirements of the then outstanding obligations payable from Transportation LIT Revenues and the additional Future Parity Obligations proposed to be issued. If, when the proposed Future Parity Obligations are issued, the County shall have finally approved an increase in the Transportation LIT, the calculation above may take into account the increase in the Transportation LIT. For purposes of this subsection, the records of the County pertaining to the Transportation LIT Revenues shail be analyzed and all showings prepared by a certified public accountant employed by the County for that purpose.

(c) The payments on the additional Future Parity Obligations shail be payable semiannually on January 15 and July 15.

SECTION 8. The City-County Council may pledge Transportation LIT Revenues to obligations which are subordinate to the Bonds, the Prior Bonds and any outstanding Future Parity Obligations provided the payment dates of such subordinate obligations are on January 15 and July 15.

SECTION 9. If any section, paragraph or provision of this Ordinance shall be held to be invalid or unenforceable for any reason, the invalidity or unenforceability of such section, paragraph or provision shall not affect any of the remaining provisions of this Ordinance.

SECTION 10. All ordinances, resolutions and orders, or parts thereof, in conflict with the provisions of this
Ordinance are, to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed; provided, however, that this Ordinance shall not be deemed in any way to repeal the Prior LIT Pledge Ordinances nor be construed as adversely affecting the rights of any of the holders of the Prior Bonds.

SPECIAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2021

[Page 4 of 5]
S.O. No. 22, 2021
Page 4

SECTION 11. It is hereby determined that all formal actions of the City-County Council relating to the adoption of this Ordinance were taken in one or more open meetings of the City-County Council, that all deliberations of the City-County Council and of its committees, if any, which resulted in formal action, were in meetings open to the public, and that all such meetings were convened, held and conducted in compliance with applicable legal requirements, including Indiana Code 5-14-1.5, as amended.

SECTION 12. This Ordinance shall be in full force and effect upon compliance with Indiana Code 36-3-4- 14, Indiana Code 36-3-4-15 and Indiana Code 36-3-4-16.

The foregoing was passed by the City-County Council this 6 day of December, 2021, at 8:12 p.m.

ATTEST:

ity-County Council

SaRita Hughes
Clerk, City-County Council

Presented by me to the Mayor this 7 day of December, 2021.

aoa - .

ESPbA
SaRita Hughes
Clerk, City-County Council

Approved and signed by me this a day of December, 2021.
J H. Ho sett, M a@yor

STATE OF INDIANA, MARION COUNTY)
) Ss:
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS )

|, SaRita Hughes, Clerk of the City-County Council, Indianapolis, Marion County, Indiana, do hereby certify the above and foregoing is a full, true, and complete copy of Proposal No. 332, 2021, a Proposal for a
SPECIAL ORDINANCE passed by the City-County Council on the 6" day of December, 2021, by a vote of 27 ve vi 4 NAYS and was retitied Special Ordinance No. 22, 2021, which was signed by the Mayor on

the day of December, 2021, and now remains on file and on record in my office.
WITNESS my hand and the official seal of the City of Indianapolis, Indiana, this A day of December, 2021.
SaRita Hughes
Clerk, City-County Council
(SEAL)

SPECIAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2021

[Page 5 of 5]
Indianapolis City - County Council RCS# 418
2020-2023
2020-2023

12/6/2021 8:12 PM

Proposal: PROP21- 332 Ordinance: S.O. 22 (PASSED)
Sponsor: Gray
Action: Adopt
Committee: Mun. Corp.

Yea: 17 Nay: 4 Abstain: 1 Not Voting: 0 Excused: 3
Yea - 17
Adamson Graves Larrison Oliver
Barth Gray Lewis Osili
Boots Jackson Mascari Potts
Brown Jones McCormick Robinson
Evans-E
Nay - 4
Annee Bain Dilk Mowery
Abstain - 1
Carlino
Excused - 3
Evans-J Hart Ray

Excused - 0
