[Page 1 of 4]
CITY-COUNTY GENERAL ORDINANCE NO. 49, 2023
Proposal No. 333, 2023

PROPOSAL FOR A GENERAL ORDINANCE to amend the Revised Code to make changes to Chapter 531, Animals and to Chapter 836, Kennel, Pet Shop and Stable Registrations.

BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA:

SECTION 1. Section 531-101 of the "Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County," regarding the definition of “Kennel” hereby is amended by the deletion of the language that is stricken-through, and by the addition of the language that is underscored, to read as follows:

Sec. 531-101. Definitions

As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section.

Animal means any living, nonhuman vertebrate creature.

Animal care services division means the animal care services division of the department of business and neighborhood services.

Animal care services shelter means the shelter described in section 226-512 of this Code.

At large means being loose and free roaming, not being on a leash and under the control of a competent person, or any portion of the animal's body not being confined within a pen, corral, yard, cage, house, vehicle, or other secure enclosure or structure or by other means that prevents escape.

Board means the board of business and neighborhood services of the department of business and neighborhood services.

Community cat means an unowned cat that has been captured, evaluated, ear tipped, sterilized and vaccinated against rabies by a licensed veterinarian and released in accordance with section 531- 209 of this Code.

Community cat caretaker means a person that provides food, water or outdoor areas of shelter to a community cat and who is not otherwise prohibited from owning or keeping animals.

Crime prevention dog means and includes a dog that is trained and used by its owner or keeper primarily for the protection of persons or property, or both.

Dangerous animal means any animal that:

(1) Would constitute a danger to human life or property if it were not kept in the manner required by this chapter;

(2) Has caused serious injury to a person without having been provoked by that person;

(3) Ata place other than its owner's or keepers property has:
a. Chased or approached a person in a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack;

or

b. Attacked another domestic animal; or

(4) Because of its training or behavior, is capable of inflicting physical harm or death to humans.

Dog means and includes animals of the Canis famillaris species, and hybrids of a Canis familiaris and any other member of the Canis genus, including wolves.

Domestic animals means rabbits, cattle, horses, ponies, mules, donkeys, jackasses, llamas, swine, sheep, goats, dogs, cats and poultry.

Exposed to rabies means an animal has been exposed to rabies if it has been bitten by or been in contact with any animal known or reasonably suspected to have been infected with rabies.

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2023

[Page 2 of 4]
G.O. No. 49, 2023
Page 2

Free-roaming cat means a cat that is at large that does not possess an identification tag or microchip as required by section 501-202 of this Code nor has been ear tipped to indicate it is a community cat.

Kennel means a facility operated commercially and principally for the purpose of boarding, housing, greeming, breeding or training dogs or cats, or both. For purposes of this chapter, kennel shall not include a facility in or adjoining a private residence where dogs or cats are kept for the hobby of the owner, lessee or other occupant of the property using the animals for hunting, practice tracking, exhibiting in shows or field or obedience trials or for the guarding or protecting of the property, and an occasional sale of pups or kittens by the owner, lessee or other occupant of the property shall not make such property a kennel for the purposes of this chapter.

Law enforcement animal means an animal that is owned or used by a law enforcement agency for the purpose of aiding in the detection of criminal activity, enforcement of laws, the apprehension of offenders and ensuring the public welfare.

Monitored means that the animal:

(1) Is controlled by means of a leash or other device held by a competent person, subject to the provisions of sections 531-401 and 531-728, which animal is sufficiently near the owner or handler as to be under his or her direct control and is obedient to that person's command;

(2) Is on or within a vehicle being driven or parked; or

(3) Is confined as required by this chapter.

Nenbite exposure means and includes scratches, abrasions, open wounds or mucous membranes contaminated with saliva or other potentially infectious material from a rabid animal.

Own means to keep, harbor or have custody, charge or control of an animal, and owner means any person who owns an animal, however.

(1) Veterinarians and operators of kennels, pet shops and stables, as those terms are defined in Chapter 836 of this Code, who temporarily keep animals owned by, or held for sale to other persons shali not be deemed to own or be owners, but rather to be keepers of such animals.

(2) Acommunity cat caretaker shall not be deemed to own or keep a community cat but rather to provide limited oversight of such animals.

Person means and includes any individual, corporation, partnership or other association or organization, but shall exclude the following for purposes of section 531-401:

(1) Police officers, federal or state armed forces, park rangers, game wardens, conservation officers and other such governmental agencies, with respect to actions that constitute a discharge of their official duties; and

(2) An individual, partnership, corporation or other association, organization, or institution of higher education, that is registered as a research facility with the United States Secretary of Agriculture under 7 USC § 2131 et seq., commonly known as the "Animal Welfare Act," while engaged in the course of their performance as such.

Provoke means the infliction of bodily harm on the animal or another person, or conduct that constitutes a substantial step toward the infliction of bodily harm on the animal or another person.

Quarantining authority means the department of business and neighborhood services, its contractors, agents, employees and designees, acting under directives and regulations of the Health and Hospital Corporation of Marion County or the state board of animal health.

Serious injury means any injury that results in permanent disfigurement, unconsciousness, extreme pain, or permanent or protracted loss or impairment of the function of a bodily member or organ and includes, in regard to an animal, an injury requiring euthanasia.

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2023

[Page 3 of 4]
G.O. No. 49, 2023
Page 3

Veterinarian means a person licensed to practice veterinary medicine in the state.
Wild animal means and includes:

(1) A Class Ill wild animal for which a state permit is required under 310 IAC 3.1-11-8 and/or
IC 14-22-26; and
(2) Avenomous snake, poisonous amphibian, or other large reptile.

SECTION 2. Section 836-1 of the "Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County,” regarding definitions hereby is amended by the deletion of the language that is stricken-through, and by the addition of the language that is underscored, to read as follows:

Sec. 836-1. Definitions.

As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section:

Kennel means a facility operated commercially and principally for the purpose of boarding, housing, greeming, breeding or training dogs or cats, or both; a kennel, for purposes of this chapter, shall not include a facility in or adjoining a private residence where dogs are kept for the hobby of the householder using them for hunting, practice tracking, exhibiting in shows or field or obedience trials or for the guarding or protecting of the householder's property, and an occasional sale of puppies or kittens by the owner, lessee or other occupant of such property shall not make that property a kennel for the purposes of this chapter.

Pet shop means a facility operated commercially and principally for the purpose of selling animals which, in the hands of their immediate purchasers, will be pets.

Stable means a facility operated commercially and principally for the purpose of lodging and feeding domestic animals.

SECTION 3. The expressed or implied repeal or amendment by this ordinance of any other ordinance or part of any other ordinance does not affect any rights or liabiliti proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this ordinance. Those rights, liabilities, and proceedings are continued, and penalties shall be imposed and enforced under the repealed or amended ordinance as if this ordinance had not been adopted.

SECTION 4. Shouid any provision (section, paragraph, sentence, clause, or any other portion) of this ordinance be declared by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, the remaining provision or provisions shall not be affected, if and only if such remaining provisions can, without the invalid provision or provisions, be given the effect intended by the Council in adopting this ordinance. To this end the provisions of this ordinance are severable.

SECTION 5. This ordinance shall be in effect from and after its passage by the Council and compliance with Ind. Code § 36-3-4-14.

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2023

[Page 4 of 4]
G.O. No. 49, 2023
Page 4

The foregoing was passed by the City-County Council this 4" day of December, 2023, at 8:59 p.m.

ATTEST:

ity-County Council

Yulonda Winfield
Clerk, City-County Council

Presented by me to the Mayor this 6th day of December, 2023

Yulonda Winfield
Clerk, City-County Council

Approved and signed by me this GM day of December, 2023.

/
eset A Phy
H. Hoggett, Mayor

STATE OF INDIANA, MARION COUNTY)
) ss:
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS )

|, Yulonda Winfield, Clerk of the City-County Council, Indianapolis, Marion County, Indiana, do hereby certify the above and foregoing is a full, true, and complete copy of Proposal No. 333, 2023, a Proposal for a
GENERAL ORDINANCE passed by the City-County Council on the 4% day of December, 2023, by a vote of 24 YEAS and OANAYS, and was retitled General Ordinance No. 49, 2023, which was signed by the Mayor on the Ute day of December, 2023, and now remains on file and on record in my office.

WITNESS my hand and the official seal of the City of indianapolis, Indiana, this / day of December, 2023.

Yulonda Winfield
Clerk, City-County Council
(SEAL)

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2023
