[Page 1 of 14]
CITY-COUNTY SPECIAL ORDINANCE NO. 18, 2023
Proposal No. 337, 2023

A SPECIAL ORDINANCE of the City of Indianapolis, Indiana (the "City") authorizing the issuance of and appropriating the proceeds of one or more series of revenue bonds or bond anticipation notes ina maximum principal amount not to exceed Thirty-Seven Million Dollars ($37,000,000) (the “Bonds") for the purpose of providing funds to pay the cost of renovating, repairing, improving or demolishing certain buildings and facilities of the City and of Marion County, Indiana (the "County"); providing for the payment of such Bonds from legally available funds of the City; providing for the safeguarding of the interests of the owners of said
Bonds, and approving and authorizing other actions in respect thereto.

WHEREAS, the City and the County now own, lease, utilize or derive benefit from certain buildings and ilities constituting public improvements, which buildings and facilities are in need of certain renovations, repairs, improvements or demolition as hereinafter described; and

WHEREAS, the City-County Council of the City of Indianapolis, indiana and of Marion County, Indiana (the "Council") now finds that certain renovations, repairs, improvements and demolition to said buildings and facilities are necessary and serve a public purpose; and that preliminary plans, specifications and estimates have been or will be prepared and filed by the architects and engineers employed by the City or its agent for the construction or completion of said renovations, repairs, improvements or demolition, as more fully described on Exhibit A attached hereto (collectively “Projects"), which prelimi specifications have been or will be approved by all governmental authorities having jurisdiction; and

WHEREAS, the City, in conjunction with the Indianapolis-Marion County Building Authority (the "Building Authority"), as necessary, has obtained or will obtain architects’ and engineers’ estimates of the costs for the construction or completion of said Projects and will advertise and receive bids for the Projects, which bids will be subject to the City's obtaining funds fo pay for said Projects; that on the basis of preliminary architectural and engineering estimates, the cost of the Projects, including costs of issuing the
Bonds, capitalized interest on the Bonds during the renovation, repair, improvement or demolition, bond insurance premium, if necessary, and the funding of a debt service reserve account for the Bonds, if necessary; and

WHEREAS, the City finds that there are not sufficient funds available to apply on the cost of the Projects and that the cost of the Projects is to be financed by the issuance of revenue bonds in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed $37,000,000; and

WHEREAS, the Bonds to be issued pursuant to this Ordinance will be secured by and payable from legally available funds of the City, and are to be issued subject to the provisions of the State of Indiana, including, without limitation, 1C 5-1-14 and IC 36-3-4-21, as in effect on the date of delivery of the Bonds (the "Act") authorized herein, and the terms and restrictions of this Ordinance; and

WHEREAS, a notice of a public hearing on the appropriation of the proceeds of the Bonds in an amount not to exceed Thirty-Seven Million Dollars ($37,000,000), plus or minus any respective original issue premium or discount and investment earnings, to be issued for the purpose of procuring funds to be applied on the cost of the Project, the incidental expenses to be incurred in connection therewith and with the issuance and sale of the Bonds, funding capitalized interest, bond insurance premium, if necessary, and funding a debt service reserve, if necessary, was properly published in two newspapers published in the
City and the proofs of publication were presented to the Council and placed in the Council's records; and

WHEREAS, IC 5-1.4 provides that a qualified entity, which term includes the City, may issue and sell its Bonds, in one or more series, to The Indianapolis Local Public Improvement Bond Bank (the "Bond
Bank"); and

WHEREAS, the Executive Director of the Bond Bank has expressed a willingness to purchase the
Bonds in a negotiated sale with the proceeds of bonds to be issued by the Bond Bank (the "Bond Bank
Bonds"), subject to approval by the Board of Directors of the Bond Bank; and

WHEREAS, the Bonds to be issued under Section 1 of this Ordinance are issued pursuant to authority granted in the Act; and

SPECAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2023

[Page 2 of 14]
S.0. No. 18, 2023
Page 2

WHEREAS, the City has obtained, or will obtain, all necessary approvals required by law for the issuance of the Bonds; and

WHEREAS, the Council has determined that it will be in the best interest of the City to sell the Bonds in a negotiated sale to the Bond Bank; and

WHEREAS, all conditions precedent to the adoption of an ordinance authorizing the issuance of said
Bonds have been complied with in accordance with the provisions of the Act; now, therefore:

BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND MARION COUNTY, INDIANA:

SECTION 1. issuance of Bonds.

(a) In order to procure funds with which to pay for the cost of the Projects, including the costs of issuance of the Bonds, the Controller is, without further authorization from the Council, authorized to proceed with the issuance of revenue bonds pursuant to and in the manner prescribed by the Act and in this Ordinance.

(b) The City shall issue its bonds, designated "Facility Revenue Bonds of 2024," in one or more series, in a principal amount not to exceed Thirty-Seven Million Dollars ($37,000,000) for the purpose of procuring funds to: (i) pay the costs of the Projects, (ii) pay the costs of issuing the Bonds, (ili) pay capitalized interest on the Bonds during construction or completion, (iv) pay the cost of bond insurance premium, if necessary, and (v) fund a debt service reserve account for the Bonds, if necessary.

(c) The Bonds shail be sold at a price not less than 97% of the par value thereof, shall be issued in the denomination of Five Thousand Dollars ($5,000) each or integral multiples thereof, numbered consecutively from 24R-1 upward, dated as of the first day of the month in which they are sold or delivered, or the date of delivery, as determined by the Controller with the advice of the City's financial advisor, and shall bear interest at an initial rate or rates not to exceed eight percent (8.0%) per annum, which interest shall be payable semiannually on January 15 and July 15, commencing on the January 15 or July 15 following the issue date of the Bonds. The Bonds shall mature semiannually or annually, or shall be subject to mandatory sinking fund redemption if term bonds are issued, on January 15 or July 15, each as determined by the
Controller with the advice of the City's financial advisor, over a period ending no later than twenty-five (25) years after their date of delivery and in such amounts which will produce as level annual debt service as practicable with $5,000 denominations.

(d) Interest on the Bonds shall be calculated according to a 360-day calendar year containing twelve 30- day months.

(e) All or a portion of the Bonds may be issued as one or more term bonds, as determined by the Bond
Bank. Such term bonds shall have a stated maturity or maturities on January 15 or July 15 in the years as determined by the Bond Bank, but no later than the final serial maturity of the Bonds as established in accordance with the above paragraph (c). The Bonds shall be subject to mandatory sinking fund redemption and final payment(s) at maturity at 100% of the principal amount thereof, plus accrued interest to the redemption date, on dates which correspond to the principal payment dates hereinafter set in accordance with the above paragraph.

(£) The Bonds are redeemable at the option of the City on any date no earlier than eight (8) years after their date of delivery, on thirty (30) days’ notice, in whole or in part, in the order of maturity as determined by the City and by lot within a maturity, at par, plus in each case accrued interest to the date fixed for redemption, or as otherwise determined by the Bond Bank in connection with the issuance of its Bond Bank
Bonds.

(g) If any Bond is issued as a term bond, the Paying Agent shall credit against the mandatory sinking fund requirement and corresponding mandatory redemption obligation, in the order to be determined by the City, any Bonds maturing which have previously been redeemed (otherwise than as a result of a previous mandatory redemption requirement) or delivered to the Registrar for cancellation or purchased for

SPECAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2023

[Page 3 of 14]
S.O. No. 18, 2023
Page 3

cancellation by the Paying Agent and not theretofore applied as a credit against any redemption obligation.
Each Bond so delivered or canceled shall be credited by the Paying Agent at 100% of the principal amount thereof against the mandatory sinking fund obligation on such mandatory sinking fund date, and any excess of such amount shall be credited on future redemption obligations, and the principal amount of the Bonds to be redeemed by operation of the mandatory sinking fund requirement shall be accordingly reduced;
provided, however, the Paying Agent shall credit only such Bonds maturing as term bonds to the extent received on or before forty-five (45) days preceding the applicable mandatory redemption.

(h) Each Five Thousand Dollars ($5,000) principal amount shali be considered a separate bond for purposes of optional and mandatory redemption. If less than an entire maturity is called for redemption, the
Bonds to be called shall be selected by lot by the Registrar. If some Bonds are to be redeemed by optional redemption and mandatory sinking fund redemption on the same date, the Registrar shall select by lot the
Bonds for optional redemption before selecting the Bonds by lot for the mandatory sinking fund redemption.

(Gi) Notice of such redemption shall be mailed to the registered owner not less than thirty (30) days prior to the date fixed for redemption at the address of the registered owner as shown on the registration record of the City as of the date which is forty-five (45) days prior to said redemption date, unless such redemption notice is waived by the owner of the Bond or Bonds redeemed. The notice shail specify the date and place of redemption and sufficient identification of the Bonds called for redemption. The place of redemption may be determined by the City. Interest on the Bonds so called for redemption shall cease on the redemption date fixed in such notice if sufficient funds are available at the place of redemption to pay the redemption price on the date so named. Coincidentally with the payment of the redemption price, the Bonds so called for redemption shall be surrendered for cancellation.

SECTION 2. Registrar and Paying Agent. The Controller is hereby authorized to contract with a qualified institution to serve as Registrar and Paying Agent for the Bonds ("Registrar or "Paying Agent"). Said
Registrar is hereby charged with the responsibility of authenticating the Bonds. The Controlier is hereby authorized to enter into such agreements or understandings with the Registrar on the date of issuance of the Bonds, or at any later date until all the Bonds mature or are redeemed, as will enable the institution to perform the services required of a registrar and paying agent. The Controller is further authorized to pay such fees as the Registrar may charge for the services it provides as Registrar and Paying Agent and such fees may be paid from the Bond and Interest Account, as hereinafter defined in Section 9, to pay the principal of and interest on the Bonds and fiscal agency charges.

If Bonds are sold to a purchaser that does not object to such designation, the Controller may be designated the Registrar and Paying Agent, and in that case, will be charged with the performance of all of the duties and responsibilities of Registrar and Paying Agent.

The principal of the Bonds shall be payable at the principal office of the Paying Agent. All payments of interest on the Bonds shall be paid by check mailed one business day prior to the payment date to the registered owners thereof, as of the fifteenth day of the month preceding such interest payment date ("Record Date"), at the addresses as they appear on the registration books kept by the Registrar or at such other address as is provided to the Paying Agent in writing by such registered owner. If payment of principal or interest is made to a depository, payment shall be made by wire transfer on the payment date in same- day funds. If the payment date occurs on a date when financial institutions are not open for business, the wire transfer shall be made on the next succeeding business day. The Paying Agent shail be instructed to wire transfer payments by 1:00 p.m. (New York City time) so such payments are received at the depository by 2:30 p.m. (New York City time). All payments on the Bonds shall be made in any lawful money of the
United States of America, which on the date of such payment, shall be legal tender for the payment of public and private debts.

Each Bond shail be transferable or exchangeable only upon the books of the City kept for that purpose at the principal office of the Registrar by the registered owner thereof in person, or by its attorney duly authorized in writing, upon surrender of such Bond together with a written instrument of transfer or exchange satisfactory to the Registrar duly executed by the registered owner, or its attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon a new fully registered Bond or Bonds in an authorized aggregate principal amount and of the same maturity, shall be executed and delivered in the name of the transferee or transferees or the registered owner, as the case may be, in exchange therefor. The costs of such transfer or exchange

SPECAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2023

[Page 4 of 14]
S.0. No. 18, 2023
Page 4

shall be borne by the City except for any tax or governmental charge required to be paid with respect to the transfer or exchange, which taxes or governmental charges are payable by the person requesting such transfer or exchange. The City and the Registrar and Paying Agent for the Bonds may treat and consider the person in whose name such Bonds are registered as the absolute owner thereof for all purposes including for the purpose of receiving payment of, or on account of, the principal thereof and interest due thereon.

Interest on such Bonds shall be payable from the interest payment date to which interest has been paid next preceding the authentication date of the Bonds unless the Bonds are authenticated after the Record
Date and on or before such interest payment date in which case they shall bear interest from such interest payment date, or unless the Bonds are authenticated on or before the Record Date preceding the first interest payment date in which case they shall bear interest from the original date of the Bonds until the principal shall be fully paid.

SECTION 3. Execution: Revenues Available for Debt Service. Each of said Bonds shall be executed in the name of the City by the manual or facsimile signature of the Mayor, attested by the manual or facsimile signature of its Controller and the seal of the City shall be affixed, imprinted or impressed to or on each of said Bonds manually, by facsimile or any other means; and said officials, by the execution of a Signature and No Litigation Certificate, shall adopt as and for their own proper signatures the facsimile signatures appearing on said Bonds. In case any officer whose signature or facsimile signature appears on the Bonds shall cease to be such officer before the delivery of the Bonds, the signature of such officer shall nevertheless be valid and sufficient for all purposes the same as if such officer had remained in office until such delivery. The Bonds shall also be authenticated by the manual signature of an authorized representative of the Registrar and no Bond shail be valid or become obligatory for any purpose until the certificate of authentication thereon has been so executed.

Said Bonds shall have all of the qualities and incidents of negotiable instruments under the laws of the State of Indiana, subject to the provisions for registration herein.

The City shall make payment of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the bonds from legally available funds of the City. The City shall not be obligated to pay said Bonds or the interest thereon except from such legally available funds. The Bonds shall not constitute an indebtedness of the City within the meaning of the provisions and limitations of the constitution of the State of Indiana.

SECTION 4. Form of Bonds. The form and tenor of said Bonds shall be substantially as follows, all blanks to be filled in properly prior to delivery thereof:

SPECAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2023

[Page 5 of 14]
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
STATE OF INDIANA NO: 24R-1

COUNTY OF MARION

CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS, INDIANA
FACILITY REVENUE BONDS OF 2024

Original Date Maturity Date Authentication Date Interest Rate
, 2024 ,20__ I , 2024

REGISTERED OWNER: [ ]

PRINCIPAL AMOUNT: ] MILLION DOLLARS ($ [ 1)

The City of Indianapolis ("City"), in Marion County, State of Indiana, for value received, hereby promises to pay to the Registered Owner named above ("Registered Owner") or registered assigns, the Principal Sum set forth above, or so much thereof as may be advanced from time to time and be outstanding as evidenced by the records of the registered owner making payment for this Bond, or its assigns on the Maturity Date set forth above (unless this Bond be subject fo and be called for redemption prior to maturity as hereinafter provided), and to pay interest thereon until the Principal Sum shail be fully paid at the Interest Rate per annum specified above, from the interest payment date to which interest has been paid next preceding the Authentication Date of this Bond unless this Bond is authenticated after the first day of the month preceding an interest payment date and on or before such interest payment date in which case it shall bear interest from such interest payment date, or unless this Bond is authenticated on or before 15, 202__.
(January 15 or July 15 next succeeding date of issuance), in which case it shall bear interest from the Original Date, which interest is payable semiannually on January 15 and
July 15, beginning 15, 202_ (January 15 or July 15 next succeeding date of issuance). Interest shall be caiculated according to a 360-day calendar year containing twelve 30-day months. The principal of this Bond is payable at the principal office of

l ] (‘Registrar" or "Paying Agent"), in the City of Indianapolis,
Indiana. All payments of interest on the Bond shall be paid by check mailed on the business day prior to the interest payment date to the registered owner hereof, as of the first day of the month preceding an interest payment date, at the address as it appears on the registration books kept by the Registrar or at such other address as is provided to the
Paying Agent in writing by the registered owner. If payment of principal or interest is made to a depository, payment shall be made by wire transfer on the payment date in same-day funds. If the payment date occurs on a date when financial institutions are not open for business, the wire transfer shall be made on the next succeeding business day. The Paying
Agent shall wire transfer payments by 1:00 p.m. (New York City time). All payments on the
Bond shall be made in any lawful money of the United States of America, which on the dates of such payment, shall be legal tender for the payment of public and private debts.

THIS BOND, TOGETHER WITH THE INTEREST HEREON, SHALL BE PAYABLE FROM
LEGALLY AVAILABLE FUNDS OF THE CITY, AND NEITHER THIS BOND NOR THE ISSUE
OF WHICH IT IS A PART SHALL IN ANY WAY OR RESPECT CONSTITUTE A
CORPORATE INDEBTEDNESS OF THE CITY WITHIN THE PROVISIONS AND
LIMITATIONS OF THE CONSTITUTION OF THE STATE OF INDIANA.

It is hereby certified and recited that all acts, conditions and things required to be done precedent to and in the execution, issuance and delivery of this Bond have been done and performed in regular and due form as provided by law.

This Bond shall not be valid or become obligatory for any purpose until the certificate of authentication hereon shall have been executed by an authorized representative of the
Registrar.

SPECAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2023

[Page 6 of 14]
S.O. No. 18, 2023
Page 6

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the City of Indianapolis, in Marion County, Indiana, has caused this Bond to be executed in its corporate name by the manual or facsimile signature of the
Mayor and its corporate seal to be hereunto affixed, imprinted or impressed by any means and attested manually or by facsimile by its Controller.

CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS, INDIANA

By:

Mayor

[SEAL]
Attest:

Controller

REGISTRAR'S CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION

This Bond is one of the Bonds described in the within-mentioned ordinance.

Date of Authentication:

[ ], as Registrar

By:

Authorized Representative

This Bond is one of an authorized issue of Bonds of the City of indianapolis, Indiana, of like date, tenor and effect, except as to rates of interest and dates of maturity; with an aggregate principal amount of

Million Dollars ($| }; numbered consecutively from 24R-1 up. This
Bond is issued pursuant fo an ordinance adopted by the City-County Council of said City on
[December 4], 2023, entitled "A SPECIAL ORDINANCE of the City of Indianapolis, Indiana authorizing the issuance of one or more series of its revenue bonds of the City, the pledge of revenues sufficient fo pay the debt service on such bonds; providing for the safeguarding of the interests of the owners of said bonds, other matters connected therewith, including the issuance of notes in anticipation of bonds, and repealing ordinances inconsistent herewith ("Ordinance"), and in accordance with the provisions of Indiana law, including without limitation Indiana Code 5-1-14 and 36-3-4-21, each as in effect on the date of delivery of the Bonds (collectively, the "Act’).

Pursuant to the provisions of said Act and said ordinance, the principal of and interest on this Bond are payable solely from the Revenue Fund ("Revenue Fund”) created by the ordinance to be provided from the legally available funds of the City. In the event there is a default in the payment of the interest on or principal of this Bond, the owner of this Bond shall have ail of the rights and remedies provided for under Indiana law.

The City further covenants that it will set aside and pay into its Revenue Fund legally available funds in a sufficient amount for payment of: (a) the interest on all Bonds, as such interest shall fall due; (b) the necessary fiscal agency charges for paying Bonds and interest; (c) the principal of all Bonds, as such principal shall fall due; and (d) an additional amount as a margin of safety to create and maintain the debt service reserve account required by this Ordinance.

This Bond is transferable or exchangeable only upon the books of the City kept for that purpose at the office of the Registrar, by the registered owner hereof in person, or by its attorney duly authorized in writing, upon surrender of this Bond together with a written instrument of transfer or exchange

SPECAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2023

[Page 7 of 14]
S.O. No. 18, 2023
Page 7

satisfactory to the Registrar duly executed by the registered owner, or its attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon a new fully registered Bond or Bonds in an authorized aggregate principal amount and of the same maturity, shall be executed and delivered in the name of the transferee or transferees or to the registered owner, as the case may be, in exchange therefor. This Bond may be transferred or exchanged without cost to the registered owner except for any tax or governmental charge required with respect to the transfer. The City, the Registrar and any paying agent for this Bond may treat and consider the person in whose name this Bond is registered as the absoiute owner hereof for all purposes including for the purpose of receiving payment of, or on account of, the principal hereof and interest due hereon.

[The Bonds of this issue maturing on or after 15, 20_, are redeemable at the option of the City on [ 15, 20_, or any date thereafter, on thirty (30) days’ notice, in whole or in part, in the order of maturity as determined by the City and by lot within a maturity, at a redemption price of par plus accrued interest to the redemption date without premium.]

[The Bonds are subject to mandatory sinking fund redemption prior to maturity, at a redemption price equal to the principal amount thereof plus accrued interest, in the years and amounts set forth below:]
Year Amount

*

* Final Maturity

Each Five Thousand Dollars ($5,000) principal amount shall be considered a separate bond for purposes of optional [and mandatory] redemption. If less than an entire maturity is called for redemption, the Bonds to be redeemed shall be selected by lot by the Registrar. [If some Bonds are to be redeemed by optional redemption and mandatory sinking fund redemption on the same date, the Registrar shall select by lot the
Bonds for optional redemption before selecting the Bonds by lot for the mandatory sinking fund redemption.]

Notice of such redemption shall be mailed to the address of the registered owner as shown on the registration record of the City, as of the date which is forty-five (45) days prior to such redemption date, not less than thirty (30) days prior to the date fixed for redemption. The notice shall specify the date and place of redemption and sufficient identification of the Bonds called for redemption. The place of redemption may be determined by the City. Interest on the Bonds so called for redemption shall cease on the redemption date fixed in such notice, if sufficient funds are available at the place of redemption to pay the redemption price on the date so named.

If this Bond shall not be presented for payment or redemption on the date fixed therefor, the City may deposit in trust with its depository bank an amount sufficient to pay such Bond or the redemption price, as the case may be, and thereafter the registered owner shail look only to the funds so deposited in trust with said bank for payment and the City shall have no further obligation or liability in respect thereto.

THE OWNER OF THIS BOND, BY THE ACCEPTANCE HEREOF, HEREBY AGREES TO ALL THE
TERMS AND PROVISIONS CONTAINED IN THE ORDINANCE. This Bond is subject to defeasance prior to redemption or payment as provided in the ordinance. The ordinance may be amended without the consent of the owners of the Bonds as provided in the ordinance if the City-County Council determines in its sole discretion, that the amendment shall not adversely affect the rights of any of the owners of the
Bonds.

The Bonds maturing in any one year are issuable only in fully registered form in the denomination of Five
Thousand Dollar ($5,000) integral multiples thereof not exceeding the aggregate principal amount of the
Bonds maturing in such year.

ASSIGNMENT

SPECAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2023

[Page 8 of 14]
S.O. No. 18, 2023
Page 8

FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned hereby sell, assigns, and transfers unto
L ] the within bond and all rights thereunder, and hereby irrevocably constitutes and appoints to transfer the within bond in the books kept for the registration thereof with full power of substitution in the premises.

Dated:

NOTICE: Signature(s) must be guaranteed by an eligible guarantor institution participating in a Securities
Transfer Association recognized signature guarantee program

NOTICE: The signature to this assignment must correspond with the name as it appears on the face of the within bond in every particular, without alteration or enlargement or any change whatsoever.

[END OF BOND FORM]

SECTION 5. Authorization for Preparation and Delivery of the Bonds.

(a) The Controller is hereby authorized and directed to have said Bonds prepared, and the Mayor and
Controller are hereby authorized and directed to execute and attest said Bonds in the form and manner herein provided.

(b) The Controller is hereby authorized and directed to deliver the Bonds to the Bond Bank on the closing date, subject to the terms and provisions of the Purchase Agreement (as defined herein) and this
Ordinance.

(c) The Bonds herein authorized and delivered to the purchaser shail be the binding revenue obligations of the City, payable out of legally available funds of the City, to be set aside in the Revenue Fund as herein provided. The proper officers of the City are hereby directed to draw all proper and necessary warrants, and to do whatever acts and things which may be necessary to carry out the provisions of this Ordinance.

SECTION 6. Bond Sale. The Controller is hereby authorized and directed to sell the Bonds of each series with terms consistent with this Ordinance by negotiated sale to the Bond Bank in accordance with a qualified entity purchase agreement between the City and the Bond Bank providing for the sale of the Bonds of each series to the Bond Bank ("Purchase Agreement") upon terms consistent with this Ordinance.

The Mayor and the Controller are hereby authorized to execute and deliver the Purchase Agreement with the Bond Bank provided that the terms of such Purchase Agreement are in conformance with the terms of this Ordinance.

The Bonds of each series shall be delivered by the Controller to the Bond Bank, provided that the price for such Bonds, which shall not be less than 97% of the par value, is paid for such Bonds to the Controller, and the Bond Bank delivers an Investment letter acceptable to the City and its attorneys.

Prior to the delivery of the Bonds of each series, the Controller shall obtain a legal opinion as to the validity of the Bonds from Ice Miller LLP of Indianapolis, indiana, bond counsel, and shall furnish such opinion and a customary reliance letter to the Bond Bank. The cost of such opinion shall be considered as part of the costs incidental to these proceedings and shall be paid out of proceeds of the Bonds.

SECTION 7. Financial Records and Accounts: Continuing Disclosure. The City shall keep proper books of records and accounts, separate from all of its other records and accounts, in which complete and correct entries shall be made showing all deposits and withdrawals to the funds and accounts created hereunder.
Copies of all such statements shall be kept on file in the office of the Controller. The substantially final form of Continuing Disclosure Undertaking Agreement (the "Agreement") is hereby approved by the Council and the Mayor and the Controller are hereby authorized and directed to complete and execute the same on behalf of the City. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Ordinance, failure of the City to comply with the Agreement shall not be considered an event of default under the Bonds or this Ordinance.

SECTION 8. Project Fund. There is hereby created the Project Fund into which there shall be deposited ail net proceeds received from the sale of the Bonds, excluding any amount required to satisfy the Reserve

SPECAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2023

[Page 9 of 14]
S.0. No. 18, 2023
Page 9

Requirement (as defined herein), if necessary, which shall be deposited into the Debt Service Reserve
Account of the Revenue Fund. Moneys in the Project Fund shall be deposited and invested in a bank or banks which are legally designated and qualified depositories for the funds of the City. Moneys in the Project
Fund shall be deposited, secured and heid or invested in accordance with the laws of the State of indiana relating to the depositing, securing and holding or investing of public funds, including particularly, IC 5-13, as amended and supplemented. Moneys in the Project Fund and any income derived from the investment hereof shall be expended only for the purpose of paying the cost of the Projects and the incidental expenses incurred in connection therewith and with the issuance of Bonds. Proceeds of the Bonds will be drawn and disbursed in accordance with this Ordinance.

Any balance or balances remaining unexpended in the Project Fund after the completion of the Projects, which are not required to meet unpaid obligations incurred in connection with the construction of the
Projects, shail either: (i) be deposited In the Revenue Fund and used solely for the purposes of the Revenue
Fund; or (ii) be used for the same purpose or type of project for which the Bonds were issued, all in accordance with IC 5-1-13, as amended.

SECTION 9. Revenue Fund. There is hereby created the Revenue Fund (the "Revenue Fund") into which the City shall deposit from time to time such amounts as shall be necessary to pay, when due, the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Bonds, and any fiscal agency charges in connection with the payment of bonds and interest thereon. There shall be set aside and deposited into the Revenue Fund, as available, an amount of the legally available funds of the City sufficient to meet the requirements of the
Bond and Interest Account and the Debt Service Reserve Account, if necessary, created in the Revenue
Fund. Upon deposit by the City, such legally available funds shall be credited to the Bond and Interest
Account solely to pay the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Bonds due and payable within the next thirteen calendar months and, to the extent required hereby, to the Debt Service Reserve Account, if necessary.

Bond_and Interest Account. There is hereby created, within the Revenue Fund, the Bond and Interest
Account. There shall be credited on the fourteenth (14'") day of each calendar month, or on such other day as shall be necessary or desirable as indicated by the Bond Bank, to the Bond and Interest Account an amount equal to the sum of one-twelfth (1/12) of the principal and one-sixth (1/6) of the interest on ail then outstanding Bonds on the next succeeding principal and interest payment dates, until the amount so credited shall equal the interest and principal payable on the next succeeding principal and interest payment dates, respectively.

Debt Service Reserve Account. If it is determined to be necessary by the City, upon the advice and certification by its financial advisor, there shall be created within the Revenue Fund, the Debt Service
Reserve Account. If such Debt Service Reserve Account is created, the City shall deposit on the date of delivery of the Bonds funds, a debt service reserve surety bond, available monies, proceeds of the Bonds, or a combination thereof, into the Debt Service Reserve Account until the balance therein equals but does not exceed the least of: (i) maximum annual principal and interest requirements of the Bonds; (ii) 125% of average annual debt service on the Bonds; or (iii) 10% of the proceeds of the Bonds ("Reserve
Requirement’).

If the Debt Service Reserve Account is created pursuant to this Ordinance, the Debt Service Reserve
Account shail constitute the margin for safety and a protection against default in the payment of principal of and interest on said Bonds, and the moneys in the Debt Service Reserve Account shall be used to pay current principal and interest on the Bonds, to the extent that moneys in the Bond and Interest Account are insufficient for that purpose. Any deficiency in balance maintained in the Debt Service Reserve Account shail be promptly made up from legally available funds of the City after the required deposits are made to the Bond and Interest Account. Moneys maintained in the Debt Service Reserve Account in excess of the
Reserve Requirement shall be used for redemption of then outstanding Bonds. In the event the financial advisor to the City certifies to the City that it would be economically advantageous for the City to acquire a debt service reserve surety bond to satisfy the Reserve Requirement, the City hereby authorizes and directs the Mayor and the Controlier to obtain such a surety bond. If such a surety bond is purchased, the Mayor and the Controller are hereby authorized to execute and deliver all agreements with the provider of the surety bond to the extent necessary to comply with the terms of such surety bond and the commitment to issue the surety bonds.

SPECAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2023

[Page 10 of 14]
$.0. No. 18, 2023
Page 10

Without further action or approval by the Council, the City may rely upon the certification by its financial advisor that creating and funding the Debt Service Reserve Account is reasonably required and that the
Reserve Requirement is no larger than necessary to market the Bonds.

There shall similarly be credited to the account any amount necessary to pay the fiscal agency charges for paying principal and interest on outstanding bonds as the same become payable. The City shall, from the sums deposited in the Revenue Fund and credited to the Bond and Interest Account, remit promptly to the registered owner or to the fiscal agency sufficient moneys to pay the interest and principal on the due dates thereof together with the amount of fiscal agency charges.

SECTION 10. Investment of Funds. The Revenue Fund shall be maintained as a separate account or accounts from all other accounts of the City. All moneys deposited in the account shall be deposited, held and secured as public funds in accordance with the public depository laws of the State of Indiana provided that moneys therein may be invested in obligations in accordance with the applicable laws, including particularly IC 5-13, as amended or supplemented, and in the event of such investment, the income therefrom shall become a part of the funds invested and shall be used only as provided in this Ordinance.
Such account or accounts may be established and held by the Bond Bank for the benefit of the City.

SECTION 11. Defeasance of the Bonds. If, when the Bonds issued hereunder or any portion thereof shall have become due and payable in accordance with their terms or shall have been duly called for redemption or irrevocable instructions to call the Bonds or any portion thereof for redemption shall have been given, and the whole amount of the principal and the interest and the premium, if any, so due and payable upon all of the Bonds or any portion thereof then outstanding shall be paid; or (i) sufficient moneys or (ii) direct obligations of, or obligations the principal of and interest on which are unconditionally guaranteed by the
United States of America, the principal of and the interest on which when due will provide sufficient moneys for such purpose, shall be held in trust for such purpose, and provision shall also be made for paying all fees and expenses for the redemption, then and in that case the Bonds issued hereunder or any designated portion thereof shail no longer be deemed outstanding.

SECTION 12. Further Covenants of the City; Maintenance, Insurance and Contract with Bondholders. For the purpose of further safeguarding the interests of the owners of the Bond, it is hereby specifically provided as follows:

(a) All contracts let by the City in connection with the construction of the Projects shall be let after due advertisement as required by the laws of the State of Indiana, and all contractors shall be required to furnish surety bonds in an amount equal to 100% of the amount of such contracts, to insure the completion of said contracts in accordance with their terms, and such contractors shall also be required to carry such employers' liability and public liability insurance as are required under the laws of the State of Indiana in the case of public contracts, and shall be governed in all respects by the laws of the State of Indiana relating to public contracts.

(b) The Projects shall be constructed under plans and specifications approved by competent architects and engineers designated by the City. All estimates for work done or material furnished shall first be checked by the architect or engineer and approved by the City prior to payment therefor.

(c) So Jong as any of the Bonds herein authorized are outstanding, the City shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, insurance on the insurable parts of the Projects, of a kind and in an amount such as is usually carried by private corporations engaged in a similar type of business. All insurance shall be placed with responsible insurance companies qualified to do business under the laws of the State of Indiana, and insurance proceeds shall be used either in replacing or restoring the property destroyed or damaged, or shail be deposited in the Revenue Fund.

(d) The provisions of this Ordinance shall constitute a contract by and between the City and the owners of the Bonds herein authorized and after the issuance of the Bonds, this Ordinance shall not be repealed or amended in any respect which will adversely affect the rights of the owners of the Bonds, nor shall the
Council adopt any law, ordinance or resolution which in any way adversely affects the rights of such owners so long as any of the Bonds, or the interest thereon, remain unpaid. Except in the case of changes described in Section 14(a)-(d), this Ordinance may be amended, however, without the consent of owners of the Bonds,

SPECAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2023

[Page 11 of 14]
8.0. No. 18, 2023
Page 11

if the Council determines, in its sole discretion, that such amendment would not adversely affect the owners of the Bonds.

(e) The provisions of this Ordinance shall be construed to create a trust in the proceeds of the sale of the
Bonds herein authorized for the uses and purposes herein set forth, and the owners of the Bonds shall retain a lien on such proceeds until the same are applied in accordance with the provisions of this Ordinance and of said governing Act. The provisions of this Ordinance shall also be construed to create a trust in moneys directed to be set apart and paid into the Revenue Fund for the uses and purposes of that fund as in this Ordinance set forth.

SECTION 13. Tax Covenants. In order to preserve the excludability of interest on the Bonds from gross income, under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as in effect on the date of delivery of the Bonds (the "Code"), and as an inducement to the purchasers of the Bonds, the City represents, covenants and agrees:

(a) The Projects will be available for use by members of the general public. Use by a member of the general public means use by natural persons not engaged in a trade or business. No person or entity other than the City or another state or local governmental unit will use more than 10% of the proceeds of the Bonds or property financed by the Bond proceeds other than as a member of the general public. No person or entity other than the City or another state or local governmental unit will own property financed by the Bond proceeds or will have any actual or beneficial use of such property pursuant to a lease, management, service or incentive payment contract, an arrangement including take-or-pay or other type of output contracts or any other type of arrangement that conveys other special legal entitlements and differentiates that person's or entity's use of such property from use by the general public, unless such uses in the aggregate relate fo no more than 10% of the proceeds of the Bonds, as the case may be. If the City enters into a management contract for all or a portion of the Projects, the terms of the contract will comply with the
Regulations and IRS Revenue Procedure 97-13, as amended, supplemented or superseded from time to time, so that the contract will not give rise to private business use under the Code and the Regulations unless such use in the aggregate will not relate to more than 10% of the proceeds of the Bonds, as the case may be.

(b) No more than 10% of the principal of or interest on the Bonds is (under the terms of the Bonds, this
Ordinance or any underlying arrangement), directly or indirectly, secured by an interest in property used or to be used for private business use or payments in respect of such property, or to be derived from payments (whether or not to the City) in respect of such property or borrowed money used or to be used for a private business use.

(c) No more than 5% of the Bond proceeds will be loaned to any person or entity other than another state or local governmental unit. No more than 5% of the Bond proceeds will be transferred, directly or indirectly, or deemed transferred to a nongovernmental person in any manner that would in substance constitute a loan of the Bond proceeds.

(d) The City reasonably expects, as of the date hereof, that the Bonds will not meet either the private business use test described in paragraphs (a) and (b) above or the private loan test described in paragraph (c) above during the entire term of the Bonds.

(e) No more than 5% of the proceeds of the Bonds will be attributable to private business use as described in (a) and private security or payments described in (b) attributable to unrelated or disproportionate private business use. For this purpose, the private business use test is applied by taking into account only use that is not related to any government use of proceeds of the issue (Unrelated Use) and use that is related but disproportionate to any governmental use of those proceeds (Disproportionate Use).

(f)} The City will not take any action nor fail to take any action with respect to the Bonds that would result in the loss of excludability from gross income for federal tax purposes of interest on the Bonds pursuant to
Section 103 of the Code, nor will the City act in any other manner which would adversely affect such exclusion, and it will not make any investment or do any other act or thing during the period that the Bonds are outstanding which would cause the Bonds to be private activity bonds under the meaning of Section 141 of the Code.

SPECAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2023

[Page 12 of 14]
S.O. No. 18, 2023
Page 12

(g) It shall not be an event of default under this Ordinance if the interest on any Bonds is not excludable from gross income for federal tax purposes or otherwise pursuant to any provision of the Code which is not currently in effect and in existence on the date of issuance of the Bonds.

SECTION 14. Amendments with Consent of Bondholders. Subject to the terms and provisions contained in this section, and not otherwise, the owners of not less than sixty-six and two-thirds percent (66 2/3%) in aggregate principal amount of the Bonds issued pursuant to this Ordinance and then outstanding shall have the right from time to time, anything contained in this Ordinance to the contrary notwithstanding, to consent to and approve the adoption by the Council of such ordinance or ordinances supplemental hereto or amendatory hereof, as shall be deemed necessary or desirable by the City for the purpose of modifying, altering, amending, adding to or rescinding in any particular any of the terms or provisions contained in this
Ordinance, or in any supplemental ordinance; provided, however, that nothing herein contained shall permit or be construed as permitting:

(a) An extension of the maturity of the principal of, mandatory sinking fund redemption dates, if any, or interest on any Bond issued pursuant to this Ordinance; or

(b) A reduction in the principal amount of any Bond or the redemption premium or the rate of interest thereon; or

(c) A preference or priority of any Bond or Bonds issued pursuant to this Ordinance over any other Bond or Bonds issued pursuant to the provisions of this Ordinance; or

(d) A reduction in the aggregate principal amount of the Bonds required for consent to such supplemental ordinance.

In the event that the owners of not less than sixty-six and two-thirds percent (66 2/3%) in aggregate principal amount of the Bonds outstanding at the time of adoption of such supplemental ordinance shall have consented to and approved the adoption thereof by written instrument to be maintained on file in the office of the Controller, no owner of any Bond issued pursuant to this Ordinance shall have any right to object to the adoption of such supplemental ordinance or to object to any of the terms and provisions contained therein or the operation thereof, or in any manner to question the propriety of the adoption thereof, or to enjoin or restrain the Council from adopting the same, or from taking any action pursuant to the provisions thereof. Upon the adoption of any supplemental ordinance pursuant to the provisions of this section, this
Ordinance shall be, and shall be deemed, modified and amended in accordance therewith, and the respective rights, duties and obligations under this Ordinance of the City and all owners of Bonds then outstanding, shall thereafter be determined, exercised and enforced in accordance with this Ordinance, subject in all respects to such modifications and amendments. Notwithstanding anything contained in the foregoing provisions of this Ordinance, the rights and obligations of the City and of the owners of the Bonds authorized by this Ordinance, and the terms and provisions of the Bonds and this Ordinance, or any supplemental or amendatory ordinance, may be modified or altered in any respect with the consent of the
City and the consent of the owners of ail the Bonds then outstanding.

SECTION 15. Compliance with Tax Covenants. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Ordinance, the covenants and authorizations contained in this Ordinance ("Tax Sections") which are designed to preserve the excludability of interest on the Bonds from gross income under federal tax law ("Tax
Exemption") need not be complied with if the City receives an opinion of bond counsel that any Tax Section is unnecessary to preserve the Tax Exemption.

SECTION 16. Additional Appropriation: Appropriation for Reserve Fund.

(a) The Council hereby makes an appropriation in an amount not to exceed Thirty-Seven Million Dollars ($37,000,000), plus or minus any respective original issue premium or discount and any investment earnings thereon, to be applied to the payment of the costs of the Projects, including the costs of issuance of the Bonds, capitalized interest thereon, bond insurance premium, if necessary, and the funding of the
Debt Service Reserve Account, if necessary, all as more particularly described in this Ordinance; and that the funds to meet this appropriation be provided out of the proceeds of the Bonds (to include any original issue premium or discount and any investment earnings thereon). This appropriation is in addition to al

SPECAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2023

[Page 13 of 14]
S.O. No. 18, 2023
Page 13

other appropriations provided for in the approved and existing budget of the City for the fiscal year ending
December 31, 2024. The Controller is hereby authorized and directed to provide information to the
Department of Local Government Finance concerning this appropriation.

(b) Further, the Council hereby makes an appropriation in an amount not to exceed Three Million Dollars ($3,000,000), to fund of the Debt Service Reserve Account, if necessary, all as more particularly described in this Ordinance; and that the funds to meet this appropriation be provided from the Consolidated County
General Fund and the Revenue Bond Fund, together in an amount to satisfy the Reserve Requirement.
This appropriation is in addition to all other appropriations provided for in the approved and existing budget of the City for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2024. The Controller is hereby authorized and directed to provide information to the Department of Local Government Finance concerning this appropriation.

(c) The City and the Bond Bank have agreed that the Bond Bank shall purchase the Bonds. In order to provide the Bond Bank with funds with which to purchase the Bonds from the City, the Bond Bank will issue its bonds, which bonds may be secured by a debt service reserve fund as authorized by IC 5-1.4-5-1.

(d) The Council hereby acknowledges that the Bond Bank Bonds may be supported by a debt service reserve fund established by the Bond Bank that will be subject to the provisions of Indiana Code 5-1.4-5, as amended.

(e) If the Bond Bank determines that its bonds will be secured by a debt service reserve fund, in order to assure the maintenance of the required debt service reserve created by the Bond Bank in the aforementioned reserve fund, the Council may annually appropriate to the Bond Bank for deposit in such reserve fund the sum, certified by the chairperson of the Board of the Bond Bank to the Council, that is necessary to restore such reserve fund to an amount equal to the required debt service reserve. The chairperson of the Board of the Bond Bank, shall, within 90 days of a determination of a deficiency or by
December 1 of each year, whichever is earlier, make and deliver to the Council a certificate stating the sum required to restore the funds to that amount. Nothing contained herein shall create debt or liability of the
City to make any appropriation.

(f} All amounts received on account of money appropriated by the Council to such reserve fund shall be held and applied in accordance with IC 5-1.4-5-1(b). However, at the end of each fiscal year, if the amount in such reserve fund exceeds the required debt service reserve, any amount representing earnings or income received on account of any money appropriated to the reserve fund that exceeds the expenses of the Bond Bank for that fiscal year may be transferred to the general fund of the City.

SECTION 17. Conflicting Ordinances. All ordinances and parts of ordinances in conflict herewith are hereby repealed.

SECTION 18. Headings. The headings or titles of the several sections shall be solely for convenience of reference and shall not affect the meaning, construction or effect of this Ordinance.

SECTION 19. Effective Date. This Ordinance shall be in full force and effect from and after its adoption and compliance with IC 36-3-4-14.

SPECAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2023

[Page 14 of 14]
S.O. No. 18, 2023
Page 14

The foregoing was passed by the City-County Council this 4 day of December, 2023, at 8:47 p.m.

ATTEST:

Vop Osili
Presid

ity-County Council

Yulonda Winfield
Clerk, City-County Council

Presented by me to the Mayor this 6th day of December, 2023

Yulonda Winfield
Clerk, City-County Council

(a rcsli af

H. Hogsétt, Mayor

i
Approved and signed by me this C day of December, 2023.

Jo

STATE OF INDIANA, MARION COUNTY)
) $s:
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS )

|, Yulonda Winfield, Clerk of the City-County Council, Indianapolis, Marion County, Indiana, do hereby certify the above and foregoing is a full, true, and complete copy of Proposal No. 337, 2023, a Proposal for a
SPECIAL ORDINANCE passed by the City-County Council on the 4" day of December, 2023, by a vote of 24 YEAS Be A NAYS, and was retitled Special Ordinance No. 18, 2023, which was signed by the Mayor on the day of December, 2023, and now remains on file and on record in my office.

WITNESS my hand and the official seal of the City of Indianapolis, Indiana, this Tbe say of December, 2023.

Yulonda Winfield
Clerk, City-County Council

(SEAL)

SPECAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2023
