[Page 1 of 8]
CITY-COUNTY SPECIAL ORDINANCE NO. 12, 2022
Proposal No. 337, 2022

PROPOSAL FOR A SPECIAL ORDINANCE approving an interlocal cooperation agreement between the
Consolidated City of Indianapolis and Marion County, indiana (‘Indianapolis’) and the Johnson County,
Indiana (“Johnson County”) for the design, construction and operation of improvements to County Line
Road.

WHEREAS, LC. § 8-17-1-45 provides that each county is responsible for the construction, reconstruction, maintenance and operation of the roads, including the ditches and signs for those roads, making up its southern and eastern boundaries; and

WHEREAS, County Line Road is the boundary road between Marion County and Johnson County, and it is Marion County’s southern boundary road; therefore, the Indianapolis Department of Public Works (‘DPW’) is the agency with responsibility for the construction, reconstruction, maintenance and operation of County Line Road; and

WHEREAS, DPW has prepared plans and specifications for a capital improvement project for improvements to West County Line Road to accommodate additional traffic resulting from the construction of an interchange for Interstate 69 at West County Line Road by the Indiana Department of Transportation, which will require DPW to acquire right-of-way and to conduct construction activities within the jurisdiction of Greenwood; and

WHEREAS, West County Line Road in its present condition will not be able to provide an appropriate level of service for the anticipated increases in traffic and development growth in the area of the new I-69 interchange; therefore, DPWhas planned improvements to West County Line Road, including widening and adding travel lanes, from the future 1-69 interchange to State Road 135 (the "Project”); and

WHEREAS, both Indianapolis and Johnson County have corporate power, as a municipality and a county, respectively, to acquire and own interests in real property pursuant to I.C. § 36-1-4-5, and to use and improve interests in real property pursuant to 1.C. § 36-1-4-6; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to I.C. § 36-1-7-2, a power that may be exercised by a p:
by one or more other governmental entities may be exercised (1) by one or more entities on behaif of others, or (2) jointly by the entities, if the entities enter into a written interlocal cooperation agreement approved by the entities’ fiscal bodies by ordinance or resolution; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to I.C. § 8-17-1-45(b), the county executives of two adjoining counties may enter into an agreement under I.C. 36-1-7 for the construction, reconstruction, maintenance, or operation of any road or part of a road that makes up the boundary between the two counties; and

WHEREAS, accordingly, Indianapolis and Johnson County desire to enter into an interlocal cooperation agreement to allow DPW to carry out the Project; and

WHEREAS, the City-County Council, having considered the matter and being duly advised, finds that West
County Line Road serves and affects the citizens of and the economic well-being of both Indianapolis and
Johnson County, that the Project will improve safety and mobility, and will accommodate future economic growth in the region, and that it will be of public utility and benefit to enter into an interlocal cooperation agreement Johnson County to carry out the Project; now, therefore:

BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA:

SECTION 1. The City-County Council hereby approves the Interlocal Cooperation Agreement with Johnson
County, Indiana in substantially the form attached hereto as Exhibit A, incorporated herein by reference. The
Director of the Department of Public Works is hereby authorized to finalize, execute and deliver the
Interlocal Cooperation Agreement on behalf of the Consolidated City of Indianapolis and Marion County, and the Clerk of the City-County Council is hereby authorized to attest to the Council's approval of the
Interlocal Cooperation Agreement.

SPECIAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2022

[Page 2 of 8]
$.0. No. 12, 202

Page 2

SECTION 2. Acopy of this Special Ordinance and the Interlocal Cooperation Agreement attached hereto and

incorporated herein by reference shall be kept on file with the Clerk of the City-County Council for public inspection.

SECTION 3. This Special Ordinance shall be in full force and effect upon its passage by the City- County
Council and compliance with IC 36-3-4-14.

The foregoing was passed by the City-County Council this 34 day of October, 2022, at 7:32 p.m.

ATTEST:

Vop Osifi
Presidg “City-County Council

SaRita Hughes
Clerk, City-County Council

Presented by me to the Mayor this 4 day of October, 2022.

SaRitaHughes 9"
Clerk, City-County Council

Approved and signed by me this 54 day of October, 2022.

eph H. Hogsett, Mayor

STATE OF INDIANA, MARION COUNTY)
) Ss:
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS )

i, SaRita Hughes, Clerk of the City-County Council, indianapolis, Marion County, Indiana, do hereby certify

the above and foregoing is a full, true, and complete copy of Proposal No. 337, 2022, a Proposal for a

SPECIAL ORDINANCE passed by the City-County Council on the 3% day of October, 2022, by a vote of 24

YEAS and 0 NAYS, and was retitled Special Ordinance No. 12, 2022, which was signed by the Mayor on the
Ae day of October, 2022, and now remains on file and on record in my office.

WITNESS my hand and the official seal of the City of Indianapolis, Indiana, this fal day of October, 2022.

SaRita Hughes
Clerk, City-County Council

(SEAL)

SPECIAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2022

[Page 3 of 8]
S.O. No. 12, 202
Page 3

Exhibit A
(Form of Interlocal Cooperation Agreement)

INTERLOCAL COOPERATION AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
THE CONSOLIDATED CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND MARION COUNTY, INDIANA AND
JOHNSON COUNTY, INDIANA
REGARDING
IMPROVEMENTS TO WEST COUNTY LINE ROAD

This Interlocal Cooperation Agreement (“Agreement’) is entered into by and between the Consolidated City of Indianapolis and Marion County, Indiana (‘Indianapolis’), and the Johnson County, Indiana (“Johnson
County”) related to improvements to West County Line Road.

RECITALS:

WHEREAS, I.C. § 8-17-1-45(a) provides that each county is responsible for the construction, reconstruction, maintenance, and operation of the roads, including the ditches and signs for those roads, making up its southern and eastern boundaries; and

WHEREAS, County Line Road is the boundary road between Marion County and Johnson County, and it is
Marion County’s southern boundary road; therefore, Marion County is responsible for the construction, reconstruction, maintenance, and operation of County Line Road pursuant to I.C. § 8- 17-1-45; and

WHEREAS, Indianapolis and Marion County operate under a consolidated city-county government structure pursuant to 1.C. 36-3, and the indianapolis Department of Public Works ("DPW") is the agency with exclusive jurisdiction for the construction, reconstruction, maintenance, and operation of streets within its territorial jurisdiction pursuant to ILC. §§ 36-3-5-4, 36-3-4-23, and 36-1-3-9(a); and

WHEREAS, accordingly, DPW is responsible for the construction, reconstruction, maintenance, and operation of County Line Road; and

WHEREAS, the Indiana Department of Transportation (“INDOT”) is in the process of constructing the final segment of Section 6 of the new Interstate 69 ("I-69"), which includes constructing a new interchange at West County
Line Road; and

WHEREAS, West County Line Road in its present condition will not be able to provide an appropriate level of service for the anticipated increases in traffic and development growth in the area of the new I-69 interchange;
therefore, Indianapolis is preparing plans and specifications for improvements to West County Line Road, including widening and adding travel lanes, from the future 1-69 interchange to State Road 135; and

WHEREAS, West County Line Road serves and affects the citizens of and the economic well- being of both indianapolis and Johnson County and the Project will improve safety and mobility, and will accommodate future economic growth in the region; and

WHEREAS, Indianapolis and Johnson County, individually and collectively, have determined that the Project will be of public utility and benefit, and the parties agree it is in the mutual interest to cooperate in constructing the
Project; and

WHEREAS, it is necessary for Indianapolis to acquire additional right-of-way to construct the Project, to conduct construction activities, and to operate and maintain the West County Line Road right- of-way following completion of the Project within the borders of Johnson County; and

WHEREAS, both Indianapolis and Johnson County have corporate power, as a municipality and a county, respectively, to acquire and own interests in real property pursuant to |.C. § 36-1-4-5, and to use and improve interests in real property pursuant fo 1.C. § 36-1-4-6; and

SPECIAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2022

[Page 4 of 8]
S.0. No. 12, 202
Page 4

WHEREAS, pursuant to I.C. § 36-1-7-2, a power that may be exercised by a political subdivision and by one or more other governmental entities may be exercised (1) by one or more entities on behalf of others, or (2) jointly by the entities, if the entities enter into a written interlocal cooperation agreement approved by the entities’ fiscal bodies by ordinance or resolution; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to 1.C. § 8-17-1-45(b), the county executives of two adjoining counties may enter into an agreement under |.C. 36-1-7 for the construction, reconstruction, maintenance, or operation of any road or part of a road that makes up the boundary between the two counties; and

WHEREAS, accordingly, Indianapolis and Johnson County desire to enter info this Agreement pursuant to the authority of I.C. §§ 36-1-7-2 and 8-17-1-45(b), to allow Indianapolis to acquire right-of- way, to operate and maintain such right-of-way, and to conduct construction activities within the boundaries of Johnson County as necessary for completion of the Project and the continued operation and maintenance of the improved West County
Line Road.

NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing recitals, which are hereby incorporated into this
Agreement, the mutual promises contained herein, and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties agree as follows:

Representations. Each party represents to the other party that:

a. It will submit this Agreement for approval by the party’s fiscal body pursuant to I.C. § 36-1-7-4;

b. Subject to approval by the party’s fiscal body, it has all requisite power, authority, and legal right to enter into and carry out the obligations set forth in this Agreement; and

c. Subject to approval by the party’s fiscal body, it will execute this Agreement by an authorized representative, upon which execution this Agreement will constitute a valid, legally binding obligation of the party, enforceable by its terms, and the party is estopped from making a claim based upon the unenforceability of this
Agreement.

2. Obligations of Indianapolis. DPW shall be the lead agency on the Project, and it shall have the following obligations on behalf of Indianapolis hereunder, at the sole cost and expense of Indianapolis:

a. Appoint a representative to act as liaison with Johnson County regarding the Project.

b. Submit to the Johnson County Highway Department the design and construction plans and specifications for the Project (the “Project Plans”) at various design states for its review and comment, and to cooperate with
Johnson County regarding any reasonable comments it may have regarding the plans and specifications.

c. Perform all activities necessary to construct the Project, including but not limited to, as applicable, design, engineering, environmental due diligence, testing and remediation, utility relocation, public bidding and contracting, construction, and construction inspection.

d. Acquire all right-of-way required to construct the Project in the name of Indianapolis.

e. Comply with all statutes, rules, regulations, ordinances, and technical specifications applicable to the Project, including obtaining any permits required to construct the Project.

f. Maintain West County Line Road following completion of the improvements.

g. Operate West County Line Road, including regulation of traffic and use of the public right-of-way by ordinance, rule, regulation, or other legal means.

h. Following approval by the parties’ respective fiscal bodies and execution of this Agreement, record this
SPECIAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2022

[Page 5 of 8]
3.

7.

$.0. No. 12, 202
Page 5

Agreement with the Office of the Johnson County Recorder and the Office of the Marion County Recorder, as required by ILC. § 36-1-7-6.

i. Within sixty (60) days of the Effective Date of this Agreement (as defined in Section 6 below), file a copy of this Agreement with the Indiana State Board of Accounts, as required by 1.C. § 36-1-7- 6.

Obligations and Consents of Johnson County.

a. Johnson County shall have the following obligations hereunder:
(1) Appoint a representative to act as liaison with Indianapolis regarding the Project.

(2) Cooperate with DPW in the review of the Project Plans. Johnson County shall respond with its comments of the various stages of the Project Plans within 15 business days of submittal by DPW. If Johnson
County does not submit comments within this timeframe, then DPW shall be entitled to presume that
Johnson County has no comments.

(3) Cooperate with DPW and its contractors in carrying out construction of the Project.

b. Johnson County hereby consents to Indianapolis exercising the following powers:

(1) Johnson County consents to Indianapolis acquiring the right-of-way required to construct the Project within the boundaries of Johnson County, including consent for Indianapolis to exercise eminent domain to acquire such right-of-way if necessary.

(2) Johnson County consents to Indianapolis and its contractors carrying out construction activities required to construct the Project within the boundaries of Johnson County in accordance with the Project Plans.

(3) Johnson County consents to Indianapolis maintaining West County Line Road, including the improvements made thereto by the Project, within the boundaries of Johnson County.

(4) Johnson County consents to Indianapolis operating West County Line Road, including regulating traffic and the uses of the right-of-way thereof, including any newly acquired right- of-way for the Project, through ordinances, rules, regulations, or other legal means.

The foregoing notwithstanding, Johnson County shall not be financially responsible for any cost associated with the Project, its only cost being the staff time and related costs necessary to comply with its obligations and consents under this Agreement.

No Joint Undertaking. The parties hereby acknowledge and agree that the purpose and intent of this Agreement is not to undertake the joint exercise of power within the meaning of I.C. § 36-1-7-2(a) and, therefore, this
Agreement need not address other matters related to the financing, staffing, budget, administration through a joint board or separate legal entity, or the manner of acquiring, holding, and disposing of real and personal property ofa joint undertaking. There will be no jointly held property under this Agreement. All real estate interests acquired by Indianapolis for the Project pursuant fo this Agreement shall be acquired and held in the name of
Indianapolis.

Dispute Resolution. Any disputes that may arise under this Agreement shail be resolved by the parties’ respective executive officers, or their designees. Failing resolution by the executive officers, either party may institute a suit in a court of law as provided for in Section 12 hereof.

Effective Date. This Agreement shall be effective upon recordation of this Agreement with the Recorder of
Johnson County and the Recorder of Marion County in accordance with I.C. § 36-1-7-6

Term and Termination.

SPECIAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2022

[Page 6 of 8]
8.

10.

S.O. No. 12, 202
Page 6

a. This Agreement shail be in effect until the completion of the Project unless this Agreement has been otherwise terminated or the term hereof extended by written agreement of the parties.

b. Section 7.a. notwithstanding, the following Sections shall survive termination or expiration of this
Agreement, unless otherwise specifically terminated by written agreement of the parties:

(1) Sections 2.f. (obligation of Indianapolis to maintain West County Line Road).
(2) Sections 2.g. (obligation of Indianapolis to operate West County Line Road).
(3) Section 5 (dispute resolution).

in 8 (notice).

n 9 (indemnification).

(6) Section 11 (applicable law; venue).

Notice.

a. For routine communications concerning the Project, the parties’ respective representatives may communicate directly by whatever means they deem most effective and efficient, including by electronic mail.

b. Any other type of formal notice required to be provided under this Agreement shall be sent by internationally recognized overnight courier, certified mail, or other delivery method which provides confirmation of receipt and shall be directed to the persons and addresses specified below (or such other persons and/or addresses as any party may indicate by giving notice to the other party):

To Greenwood: To indianapolis:

Johnson County Highway Department City of Indianapolis Attention:

Director Department of Public Works

1051 Hospital Road Attention: Director

Franklin, IN 46134 200 E. Washington Street, Suite 2460
indianapolis, IN 46204

With Copy to: With a copy to:

County Attorney Corporation Counsel

Johnson County City of Indianapolis

86 W. Court Street 200 E. Washington Street, Suite 1601

Franklin, IN 46131 Indianapolis, IN 46204

Indemnification. To the extent allowed by law and subject to and without waiving any of the provisions of the
Indiana Tort Claims Act, I.C. 34-13-3-1, et seq., Indianapolis hereby agrees to indemnify and hold harmless
Johnson County, its officers, employees, and agents, from and against any and all claims, suits and liabilities of any kind or character, including reasonable attorneys’ fees, which result or arise from any negligent acts or omissions of Indianapolis or those for whom Indianapolis is responsible, including its officers, employees, and agents, arising from or connected with the performance of any of Indianapolis’s obligations or responsibilities under this Agreement, including design and construction of the Project and maintenance of the Project improvements.

Non-Discrimination. Indianapolis and Johnson County each agree not to discriminate, and agree to require each of its contractors and agents involved with the Project to agree in writing not to

discriminate, against any employee or applicant for employment to be employed in the performance of the Project with respect to her or his hire, tenure, terms, conditions, or privilege of employment, or any matter directly or indirectly related to employment, because of her or his race, sex, sexual orientation, gender identify, color, national origin, ancestry, age, disability, or United States military service veteran status.

SPECIAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2022

[Page 7 of 8]
12

13.

14.

15.

$.0. No. 12, 202
Page 7

licable Law: Venue. This Agreement shall be construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Indiana.
This Agreement shall include, and incorporate by reference, any provision, covenant, or condition required or provided by law or by regulation of any state or federal regulatory or funding agency. Suit, if any, shall be brought in a court of competent jurisdiction in Morgan County, Indiana.

Modification. The parties may alter, change, or amend the terms and conditions of this Agreement only by mutual written agreement approved by the fiscal body of each party. The foregoing notwithstanding, the parties may extend the term of the Agreement due to delays in completing the Project pursuant to Section 7.a. hereof by execution of a written amendment to this Agreement by the parties’ executive signatories hereto without the approval of the parties’ respective fiscal bodies.

Entire Agreement. This Agreement constitutes the entire and complete agreement between the parties with respect to its subject matter, supersedes any prior discussions, negotiations, and understandings between them, and cannot be altered, changed, or amended except as provided for in Section 12 hereof. The parties acknowledge that neither Indianapolis or Johnson County, nor any of their respective officers, employees, or agents have made any representations relied upon by any other party other than the agreements contained herein.

Interpretation. The parties hereby acknowledge and agree that this Agreement is the result of negotiations between the parties and their respective legal counsel, and no party shall be deemed to be the drafter of this
Agreement. The language of all parts of this Agreement shall in all cases be construed as a whole, according to its fair meaning and not strictly for or against either party.

Severabili lf any provision of this Agreement is held to be invalid, illegal, or unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, the provision shall be stricken, and all other provisions of this Agreement which can operate independently of such stricken provisions shall continue in full force and effect.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement on the dates specified

below.

SPECIAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2022

[Page 8 of 8]
Indianapolis City - County Council RCS# 822

2020-2023
2020-2023
10/3/2022 7:32 PM
VOTED AS PART OF
GROUP RCS #821
Proposal: PROP22- 337 Ordinance: S.O. 12 (PASSED)
Sponsor: Bain
Action: Adopt
Committee: Public Works
Yea: 24 Nay: 0 Abstain: 0 Not Voting: 0 Excused: 1

Yea - 24

Adamson Dilk Jackson Mowery

Annee Evans-E Jones Oliver

Bain Evans-J Larrison Osili

Barth Graves Lewis Potts

Boots Gray Mascari Ray

Carlino Hart McCormick Robinson
Nay -0
Abstain - 0
Excused - 1

Brown

Excused - 0
