[Page 1 of 12]
CITY-COUNTY SPECIAL ORDINANCE NO. 13, 2022
Proposal No. 338, 2022

PROPOSAL FOR A SPECIAL ORDINANCE approving an interlocal cooperation agreement between the
Consolidated City of Indianapolis and Marion County, Indiana (‘Indianapolis’) and the City of Greenwood, indiana (“Greenwood”) for the design, construction, and operation of improvements to County Line Road.

WHEREAS, Indianapolis and Greenwood are both municipalities, each of which has, pursuant fo |.C.
36-1-3-9(a), exclusive jurisdiction over the bridges, streets, alleys, sidewalks, watercourses, sewers, drains, and public grounds inside its corporate boundaries, unless a statute provides otherwise; and

WHEREAS, I|.C. § 8-17-1-45 provides that each county is responsible for the construction, reconstruction, maintenance and operation of the roads, including the ditches and signs for those roads, making up its southern and eastern boundaries; and

WHEREAS, County Line Road is the boundary road between Marion County and Johnson County, and it is Marion County’s southern boundary road; therefore, the Indianapolis Department of Public Works (‘DPW’) is the agency with responsibility for the construction, reconstruction, maintenance and operation of County Line Road; and

WHEREAS, DPW has prepared plans and specifications for two capital improvement projects which will require DPW to acquire right-of-way and to conduct construction activities within the jurisdiction of
Greenwood: (1) improvements to West County Line Road to accommodate additional traffic resulting from the construction of an interchange for interstate 69 at West County Line Road by the Indiana Department of
Transportation; and (2) improvements to South Emerson Avenue between Stop 11 Road and East County
Line Road; and

WHEREAS, both Indianapolis and Greenwood have corporate power as municipalities to acquire and own interests in real property pursuant to |.C. § 36-1-4-5, and to use and improve interests in real property pursuant to I.C. § 36-1-4-6; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to I.C. § 36-1-7-2, a power that may be exercised by a political subdivision and by one or more other governmental entities may be exercised: (1) by one or more entities on behalf of others, or (2) jointly by the entities, if the entities enter into a written interiocal cooperation agreement approved by the entities’ fiscal bodies by ordinance or resolution; and

WHEREAS, accordingly, Indianapolis and Greenwood desire to enter into an interlocal cooperation agreement to allow DPW to carry out the Project; and

WHEREAS, the City-County Council, having considered the matter and being duly advised, finds that West
County Line Road and South Emerson Avenue each serve and affect the citizens of and the economic well- being of both Indianapolis and Greenwood, that the two projects will improve safety and mobility, and will accommodate future economic growth in the region, and that it will be of public utility and benefit to enter into an interlocal cooperation agreement with Greenwood to carry out the Project; now, therefore:

BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA:

SECTION 1. The City-County Council hereby approves the Interlocal Cooperation Agreement with the City of
Greenwood, indiana in substantially the form attached hereto as Exhibit A, incorporated herein by reference.
The Director of the Department of Public Works is hereby authorized to finalize, execute and deliver the
Interlocal Cooperation Agreement on behaif of the Consolidated City of Indianapolis and Marion County, and the Clerk of the City-County Council is hereby authorized to attest to the Council’s approval of the
Interlocal Cooperation Agreement.

SECTION 2. Acopy of this Special Ordinance and the Interlocal Cooperation Agreement attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference shall be kept on file with the Clerk of the City-County Council for pul inspection.

SECTION 3. This Special Ordinance shall be in full force and effect upon its passage by the City- County
Council and compliance with IC 36-3-4-14.

SPECIAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2022

[Page 2 of 12]
S.0. No. 13, 2022
Page 2

The foregoing was passed by the City-County Council this 3 day of October, 2022, at 7:32 p.m.

Ph aghas ae

SaRita Hughes
Clerk, City-County Council

ity-County Council

Presented by me to the Mayor this 4" day of October, 2022.

Pb phaghes

SaRita Hughes —
Clerk, City-County Council

acaba

H. Hogsett, Mayor

_ ste
Approved and signed by me this day of October, 2022.

STATE OF INDIANA, MARION COUNTY)
) SS:
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS )

|, SaRita Hughes, Clerk of the City-County Council, Indianapolis, Marion County, Indiana, do hereby certify

the above and foregoing is a full, true, and complete copy of Proposal No. 338, 2022, a Proposal for a

SPECIAL ORDINANCE passed by the City-County Council on the 3 day of October, 2022, by a vote of 24

YEAS Ap 0 NAYS, and was retitled Special Ordinance No. 13, 2022, which was signed by the Mayor on the 51 day of October, 2022, and now remains on file and on record in my office.

WITNESS my hand and the official seal of the City of Indianapolis, Indiana, this Si day of October, 2022.
Pb Wughos

SaRita Hughes
Clerk, City-County Council

(SEAL)

SPECIAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2022

[Page 3 of 12]
3.0. No. 13, 2022
Page 3

Exhibit A
(Form of Interlocal Cooperation Agreement)

INTERLOCAL COOPERATION AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
THE CONSOLIDATED CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND MARION COUNTY, INDIANA AND
THE CITY OF GREENWOOD, INDIANA
REGARDING IMPROVEMENTS TO WEST

COUNTY LINE ROAD
AND TO

EMERSON AVENUE

This Interlocal Cooperation Agreement (“Agreement”) is entered into by and between the Consolidated City of Indianapolis and Marion County, Indiana (“Indianapolis”), and the City of Greenwood, Indiana (“Greenwood”) related to improvements to West County Line Road and to Emerson Avenue.

RECITALS:
WHEREAS, Indianapolis and Greenwood are both municipalities, each of which has, pursuant to

LC. 36-1-3-9(a), exclusive jur tion over the bridges, streets, alleys, sidewalks, watercourses, sewers, drains, and public grounds inside its corporate boundaries, unless a statute provides otherwise; and

WHEREAS, I.C. § 8-17-1-45 provides that each county is responsible for the construction, reconstruction, maintenance, and operation of the roads, including the ditches and signs for those roads, making up its southern and eastern boundaries; and

WHEREAS, County Line Road is the boundary road between Marion County and Johnson County, and it is
Marion County's southern boundary road; therefore, Marion County is responsible for the construction, reconstruction, maintenance, and operation of County Line Road pursuant to I.C. § 8- 17-1-45; and

WHEREAS, Indianapolis and Marion County operate under a consolidated city-county government structure pursuant to LC. 36-3, and the Indianapolis Department of Public Works (“DPW”) is the agency with exclusive jurisdiction for the construction, reconstruction, maintenance, and operation of streets within its territorial jurisdiction pursuant to ILC. §§ 36-3-5-4, 36-3-4-23, and 36-1-3-9(a); and

WHEREAS, accordingly, DPW is responsible for the construction, reconstruction, maintenance, and operation of County Line Road; and

WHEREAS, the Indiana Department of Transportation ("INDOT’) is in the process of constructing the final segment of Section 6 of the new Interstate 69 (“I-69”), which includes constructing a new interchange at West County
Line Road; and

WHEREAS, West County Line Road in its present condition will not be able to provide an appropriate level of service for the anticipated increases in traffic and development growth in the area of

the new |-69 interchange; therefore, Indianapolis is preparing plans and specifications for improvements to West
County Line Road, including widening and adding travel lanes, from the future I-69 interchange to State Road 135 (the “West County Line Road Project”); and

WHEREAS, Indianapolis has also prepared plans and specifications for a federal aid project to improve South
Emerson Avenue from Stop 11 Road in Marion County to East County Line Road (the “Emerson Avenue Project’), and

WHEREAS, the plans and specifications for the Emerson Avenue Project include the addition of sidewalk on the east side of Emerson Avenue south of East County Line Road fronting the Greenwood Springs Shopping Center

[Page 4 of 12]
$.O. No. 13, 2022
Page 4

located at 1279 North Emerson Avenue in Greenwood and connecting with an existing sidewalk south of the driveway entrance to the shopping center (the “Emerson Avenue Sidewalk”); and

WHEREAS, it is necessary for Indianapolis to acquire additional right-of-way to construct the West County
Line Road Project, to conduct construction activities, and to operate and maintain the County Line Road right-of-way following completion of the Project within the borders of Greenwood; and

WHEREAS, it is necessary for Indianapolis to acquire additional right-of-way from the owner of the
Greenwood Springs Shopping Center to construct the Emerson Avenue Sidewalk and to conduct activities to construct said sidewalk within the borders of Greenwood; and

WHEREAS, because the Emerson Avenue Sidewalk will be wholly within the borders of Greenwood, the parties desire for it to become a part of Greenwood's system and works for transportation following completion of the
Emerson Avenue Project; and

WHEREAS, County Line Road and Emerson Avenue each serve and affect the citizens of and the economic well-being of both Indianapolis and Greenwood and both the West County Line Road Project and the Emerson
Avenue Project will improve safety and mobility, and will accommodate future economic growth in the region; and

WHEREAS, Indianapolis and Greenwood have, therefore, individually, and collectively determined that the
West County Line Project and the Emerson Avenue Project will each be of public utility and benefit, and the parties agree it is in the mutual interest to cooperate in constructing these projects; and

WHEREAS, both Indianapolis and Greenwood have corporate power as municipalities to acquire and own interests in real property pursuant to I.C. § 36-1-4-5, and to use and improve interests in real property pursuant to 1.C. § 36-1-4-6; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to I.C. § 36-1-7-2, a power that may be exercised by a political subdivision and by one or more other governmental entities may be exercised (1) by one or more entities on behalf of others, or (2) jointly by the entities, if the entities enter into a written interlocal cooperation agreement approved by the entities’ fiscal bodies by ordinance or resolution; and

WHEREAS, accordingly, Indianapolis and Greenwood desire to enter into this Agreement pursuant to the authority of |.C. § 36-1-7-2 to allow for completion of the West County Line Road Project and the Emerson Avenue
Project

NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing recitals, which are hereby incorporated into this
Agreement, the mutual promises contained herein, and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties agree as follows:

Representations. Each party represents to the other party that:

a. Itwill submit this Agreement for approval by the party’s fiscal body pursuant to I.C. § 36-1-7-4;

b. Subject to approval by the party's fiscal body, it has all requisite power, authority, and legal right to enter into and carry out the obligations set forth in this Agreement; and

c. Subject to approval by the party’s fiscal body, it will execute this Agreement by an authorized representative, upon which execution this Agreement will constitute a valid, legally binding obligation of the party, enforceable by its terms, and the party is estopped from making a claim based upon the unenforceability of this
Agreement.

[Page 5 of 12]
$.O. No. 13, 2022
Page 5

2. The West County Line Road Project.

a.

b.

Obligations of Indianapolis. DPW shail be the lead agency on the West County Line Road Project, and it shall have the following obligations on behalf of Indianapolis hereunder, at the sole cost and expense of
Indianapolis:

(1) Appoint a representative to act as liaison with Greenwood.

(2) Submit to the Greenwood Community Development Services Department the design and construction plans and specifications for the Project (the “West County Line Road Project Plans’) at various design stages for its review and comment, and to cooperate with Greenwood regarding any reasonable comments it may have regarding the Plans.

(3) Perform all activities necessary to construct the West County Line Road Project, including but not limited to, as applicable, design, engineering, environmental due diligence, testing and remediation, utility relocation, public bidding and contracting, construction, and construction inspection.

(4) Acquire all right-of-way required to construct the West County Line Road Project in the name of
Indianapolis.

(5) Comply with all statutes, rules, regulations, ordinances, and technical specifications applicable to the
West County Line Road Project, including obtaining any required permits.

(6) Maintain West County Line Road following completion of the project.

(7) Operate West County Line Road, including regulation of traffic and use of the public right-of- way, by ordinance, rule, regulation, or other jegal means.

Obligations and Consents of Greenwood.

(1) Greenwood shall have the following obligations hereunder:
A. Appoint a representative to act as liaison with Indianapolis.

B. Cooperate with DPW in the review of the West County Line Road Project Plans. Greenwood shall respond with its comments of the various stages of the Plans within 15 business days of submittal by DPW. If Greenwood does not submit comments within this timeframe, then DPW shail be entitled to presume that Greenwood has no comments.

C. Cooperate with DPW and its contractors in carrying out construction of the West County Line Project.

D. Contribute to Indianapolis toward the cost of the installation of sidewalks on the south side of West
County Line Road within the borders of Greenwood in the amount of $184,500.00 (the “Greenwood
Sidewalk Contribution”). Greenwood’s contribution shall be due with in 45 days of receipt of an invoice from Indianapolis. indianapolis shall not submit an invoice to Greenwood until the West
County Line Road Project Plans have been finalized.

(2) Greenwood hereby consents to Indianapolis exercising the following powers:

A. Greenwood consents to Indianapolis acquiring the right-of-way required to construct the West County
Line Road Project within the boundaries of Greenwood, including consent for Indianapolis to exercise eminent domain to acquire such right-of-way if necessary.

[Page 6 of 12]
$.O. No. 13, 2022
Page 6

B. Greenwood consents to Indianapolis and its contractors carrying out construction activities required to construct the West County Line Road Project within the boundaries of Greenwood in accordance with the West County Line Road Project Plans.

C. Greenwood consents to Indianapolis maintaining West County Line Road, including the improvements made thereto by the West County Line Road Project, within the boundaries of
Greenwood.

D. Greenwood consents to indianapolis operating West County Line Road, including regulating traffic and the uses of the right-of-way thereof, including any newly acquired right-of-way for the West
County Line Road Project, through ordinances, rules, regulations, or other legal means.

(3) The foregoing obligations and consents of Greenwood notwithstanding, except for the
Greenwood Sidewalk Contribution, Greenwood shall not be financially responsible for any

cost associated with the West County Line Road Project, its only cost being the staff time and related costs necessary to comply with its obligations and consents under this Agreement.

3. The Emerson Avenue Project.

a.

Obligations of Indianapolis. DPW shail be the lead agency on the Emerson Avenue Project, and it shall have the following obligations on behalf of Indianapolis hereunder, at the sole cost and expense of indianapolis:

(1) Appoint a representative to act as liaison with Greenwood.

(2) Perform all activities necessary to construct the Emerson Avenue Sidewalk as part of the Emerson

Avenue Project, including but not limited fo, as applicable, design, engineering, environmental due gence, testing and remediation, utility relocation, public bidding and contracting, construction, and construction inspection.

(3) Acquire all right-of-way required to construct the Emerson Avenue Sidewalk, in the name of Indianapolis, and, following completion of the Emerson Avenue Project, transfer the right-of- way acquired to construct the Emerson Avenue Sidewalk.

(4) Comply with all statutes, rules, regulations, ordinances, and technical specifications applicable fo the
Emerson Avenue Project, including obtaining any required permits.

Obligations and Consents of Greenwood.

(1) Greenwood shall have the following obligations hereunder:
A. Appoint a representative to act as liaison with indianapolis.
B. Cooperate with DPW and its contractors in carrying out construction of the West County Line Project.

C. Accept transfer of ownership of right-of-way acquired by Indianapolis for construction of the Emerson
Avenue Sidewalk following completion of the Emerson Avenue Project, and to accept the Emerson
Avenue Sidewalk as part of Greenwood’s system and works for transportation.

[Page 7 of 12]
S.O. No. 13, 2022
Page 7

(2) Greenwood hereby consents to Indianapolis exercising the following powers:

A. Greenwood consents to Indianapolis acquiring the right-of-way required to construct the Emerson
Avenue Sidewalk as part of the Emerson Avenue Project within the boundaries of Greenwood, including consent for indianapolis to exercise eminent domain to acquire such right-of-way if necessary.

B. Greenwood consents to Indianapolis and its contractors carrying out construction activities required to construct the Emerson Avenue Sidewalk within the boundaries of Greenwood in accordance with the Emerson Avenue Project Plans.

C. Greenwood hereby acknowledges and agrees that it has, prior to the entering into this Agreement, reviewed the plans and specifications for construction of the Emerson Avenue Sidewalk and is satisfied with those plans.

(3) The foregoing obligations and consents of Greenwood notwithstanding, Greenwood shall not be financially responsible for any cost associated with the West County Line Road Project, its only cost being the staff time and related costs necessary to comply with its obligations and consents under this
Agreement.

4. Additional Obligations of Indianapolis. The parties acknowledge that I.C. § 36-1-7-6 requires interiocal cooperation agreements to be recorded, that the effective date of such an agreement is the date of recording, and that such agreements be filed with the Indiana State Board of Accounts within 60 days of the effective date.
Accordingly, DPW shall be obligated on behalf of Indianapolis and at the sole cost and expense of Indianapolis:

a. To, following approval by the parties’ respective fiscal bodies and execution of this Agreement, record this
Agreement with the Office of the Johnson County Recorder and the Office of the Marion County Recorder;
and

b. To file a copy of this Agreement with the Indiana State Board of Accounts within 60 days of the recording it.

No Joint Undertaking. The parties hereby acknowledge and agree that the purpose and intent of this
Agreement is not to undertake the joint exercise of power within the meaning of I.C. § 36-1-7-2(a) and, therefore, this Agreement need not address other matters related to the financing, staffing, budget, administration through a joint board or separate legal entity, or the manner of acquiring, holding, and disposing of real and personal property of a joint undertaking. There will be no jointly held property under this Agreement.

Dispute Resolution. Any disputes that may arise under this Agreement shall be resolved by the parties’ respective executive officers, or their designees. Failing resolution by the executive officers, either party may institute a suit in a court of law as provided for in Section 12 hereof.

7. Effective Date. The “Effective Date” of this Agreement shall be that date on which this Agreement is recorded.

8. Term and Termination.

a. This Agreement shail be in effect from the Effective Date until the later of: (i) the substantial completion of the West County Line Road Project, and (ii) the substantial completion of the

Emerson Avenue Project, unless this Agreement has been otherwise terminated or the term hereof is extended by written agreement of the parties.

b. Section 8.a. notwithstanding, the following Sections shail survive termination or expiration of this
Agreement, unless otherwise specifically terminated by written agreement of the parties:

[Page 8 of 12]
8.0, No. 13, 2022
Page 8

(1) Sections 2.a.(6) (obligation of indianapolis to maintain West County Line Road).
(2) Sections 2.a.(7) (obligation of Indianapolis to operate West County Line Road).
(3) Section 6 (dispute resolution).

(4) Section 9 (notice).

(5) Section 10 (indemnification).

(6) Section 12 (applicable law; venue).

9. Notice.

a. For routine communications concerning the West County Line Road Project and the Emerson Avenue
Project, the parties’ respective representatives may communicate directly by whatever means they deem most effective and efficient, including by electronic mail.

b. Any other type of formal notice required to be provided under this Agreement shall be sent by internationally recognized overnight courier, certified mail, or other delivery method which provides confirmation of receipt and shall be directed to the persons and addresses specified below (or such other persons and/or addresses as any party may indicate by giving notice to the other party):

To Greenwood: To Indianapolis:

City of Greenwood City of indianapolis

Attention: Mayor Department of Public Works

300 S. Madison Avenue Attention: Director

Greenwood, IN 46142 200 E. Washington Street, Suite 2460
Indianapolis, IN 46204

With Copy to: With a copy to:

Corporation Counsel Corporation Counsel

City of Greenwood City of Indianapolis

300 S. Madison Avenue 200 E. Washington Street, Suite 1601

Greenwood, IN 46142 Indianapolis, IN 46204

10. indemnification. To the extent allowed by law and subject to and without waiving any of the

provisions of the Indiana Tort Claims Act, I.C. 34-13-3-1, et seg.:

a. Indianapolis hereby agrees to indemnify and hold harmless Greenwood, its officers, employees, and agents, from and against any and all claims, suits and liabilities of any kind or character,

including reasonable attorneys’ fees, which result or arise from any negligent acts or omissions of Indianapolis or those for whom Indianapolis is responsible, including its officers, employees, and agents, arising from or connected with the performance of any of Indianapolis’s obligations or responsibilities under this Agreement, including design and construction of the West County Line Road Project and the Emerson Avenue Project and operation and maintenance of the West County Line Road.

b. Greenwood hereby agrees to indemnify and hold harmless Indianapolis, its officers, employees, and agents, from and against any and all claims, suits and liabilities of any kind or character, including reasonable attorneys’ fees, which result or arise from any negligent acts or omissions of Greenwood or those for whom
Greenwood s responsible, including its officers, employees, and agents, arising from or connected with the ownership and maintenance of the Emerson Avenue Sidewalk following transfer thereof and the right-ofway in which it will be situated from Indianapolis to Greenwood.

11. Non-Discrimination. Indianapolis and Greenwood each agree not to discriminate, and agree to require each of its contractors and agents involved with the Project to agree in writing not to discriminate, against any employee or applicant for employment to be employed in the performance of the Project with respect to her or his hire,

8

[Page 9 of 12]
12.

13.

14.

15.

16.

8.0. No. 13, 2022
Page 9

tenure, terms, conditions, or privitege of employment, or any matter directly or indirectly related to employment, because of her or his race, sex, sexual orientation, gender identify, color, national origin, ancestry, age, disability, or United States military service veteran status.

Applicable Law; Venue. This Agreement shall be construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Indiana.
This Agreement shall include, and incorporate by reference, any provision, covenant, or condition required or provided by law or by regulation of any state or federal regulatory or funding agency. Suit, if any, shall be brought in a court of competent jurisdiction in Morgan County, indiana.

Modification. The parties may alter, change, or amend the terms and conditions of this Agreement only by mutual written agreement approved by the fiscal body of each party. The foregoing notwithstanding, the parties may extend the term of the Agreement due to delays in completing the Project pursuant to Section 7.a. hereof by execution of a written amendment to this Agreement by the parties’ executive signatories hereto without the approval of the parties’ respective fiscal bodies.

Entire Agreement. This Agreement constitutes the entire and. complete agreement between the parties with respect to its subject matter, supersedes any prior discussions, negotiations, and understandings between them, and cannot be altered, changed, or amended except as provided for in Section 12 hereof. The parties acknowledge that neither Indianapolis or Greenwood, nor any of their respective officers, employees, or agents have made any representations relied upon by any other party other than the agreements contained herein.

Interpretation. The parties hereby acknowledge and agree that this Agreement is the result of negotiations between the parties and their respective legal counsel, and no party shall be deemed to

be the drafter of this Agreement. The language of all parts of this Agreement shall in all cases be construed as a whole, according to its fair meaning and not strictly for or against either party.

Severability. If any provision of this Agreement is held to be invalid, illegal, or unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, the provision shall be stricken, and all other pro ns of this Agreement which can operate independently of such stricken provisions shall continue in full force and effect.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement on the dates specified

below.

CONSOLIDATED CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND MARION COUNTY, INDIANA DEPARTMENT

OF PUBLIC WORKS
By: Amanda N. Ortman, Acting Director Date:
STATE OF INDIANA )
) Ss:
COUNTY OF MARION )

[Page 10 of 12]
Before me, the undersigned Notary Public in and for said County and State, personally appeared
Amanda N. Ortman, Acting Director of the Department of Public Works of the Consolidated City of
Indianapolis and Marion County, Indiana, who acknowledged the execution of the foregoing Interlocal

Cooperation Agreement for and on behalf thereof. Witnesses my hand and Notarial Seal this day of , 2022.

Commission Number/Expiration Date Notary Public Signature

County of Residence Notary Public Signature

Approved by the City-County Council of the Consolidated City of Indianapolis and Marion County,
Indiana by Special Ordinance , 2022 adopted the day of , 2022.

ATTEST:

By: ,SaRita Hughes, Council
Clerk

APPROVED FOR EXECUTION: APPROVED AS TO LEGAL FORM:

By:

: By:
Ken Clark, Controller

, Robert M. Frye, Special
Assistant Corporation
Counsel

CITY OF GREENWOOD, INDIANA

By: . Mark W. Myers, Mayor

STATE OF INDIANA )
)SS: COUNTY OF JOHNSON )
Date:

Before me, the undersigned Notary Public in and for said County and State, personally appeared
Mark W. Myers, the Mayor of the City of Greenwood, Indiana, who acknowledged the execution of the foregoing Interlocal Cooperation Agreement for and on behalf of the City of Greenwood. Witnesses my

hand and Notarial Seal this day of , 2022.
Commission Number/Expiration Date Notary Public Signature
County of Residence Notary Public Signature

SPECIAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2022

[Page 11 of 12]
S.O. No. 13, 2022
Page 11

Approved by the Common Council of the City of Greenwood, Indiana by resolution/ordinance adopted the day of , 2022.

ATTEST: APPROVED AS TO LEGAL FORM:

By: By:

Jeannine Myers, City Clerk Shawna Koons, City Attorney

This document was prepared by Robert M. Frye, Special Assistant Corporation Counsel, City of Indianapolis.

| affirm, under the penalties for perjury, that | gave taken reasonable care to redact each Social Security
Number in this document, unless required by law. /s/Robert M. Frye

11

[Page 12 of 12]
Indianapolis City - County Council RCS# 823

2020-2023
2020-2023
10/3/2022 7:32 PM
VOTED AS PART OF
GROUP RCS #821
Proposal: PROP22- 338 Ordinance: S.O. 13 (PASSED)
Sponsor: Annee
Action: Adopt
Committee: Public Works
Yea: 24 Nay: 0 Abstain: 0 Not Voting: 0 Excused: 1

Yea - 24

Adamson Dilk Jackson Mowery

Annee Evans-E Jones Oliver

Bain Evans-J Larrison Osili

Barth Graves Lewis Potts

Boots Gray Mascari Ray

Carlino Hart McCormick Robinson
Nay - 0
Abstain - 0
Excused - 1

Brown

Excused - 0
