[Page 1 of 9]
CITY-COUNTY SPECIAL ORDINANCE NO. 14, 2022
Proposal No. 339, 2022

PROPOSAL FOR A SPECIAL ORDINANCE approving an interlocal cooperation agreement between the
Consolidated City of indianapolis and Marion County, Indiana (“Indianapolis”) and the Hancock County,
Indiana to allow Indianapolis to acquire, manage and regulate right-of-way and conduct construction activities on the east side of Carroll Road within the borders of Hancock Counly.

WHEREAS, pursuant to LC. § 8-17-1-45, each county is responsible for the construction, reconstruction, maintenance, and operation of the roads, including the ditches and signs for those roads, making up its southern and eastern boundaries; and

WHEREAS, Carroll Road forms the boundary between Hancock County and Marion County and is the eastern boundary of Marion County; therefore, Indianapolis is responsible for Carroll Road; and

WHEREAS, Indianapolis, through its Department of Public Works ("DPW’) has prepared plans and specifications for the replacement of a culvert in or about the 4000 block of South Carroll Road identified as
Indianapolis Asset BK0954, DPW Project Number CL-42-024 (the “Project’); and

WHEREAS, in order to construct the Project, it is necessary for Indianapolis to acquire, manage and regulate right-of-way and conduct construction activities on the east side of Carroll Road within the borders of
Hancock County; and

WHEREAS, Indianapolis has the power to acquire real property and may exercise that power within four (4) miles outside its boundaries pursuant to I.C. § 36-1-4-5; and

WHEREAS, however, pursuant to 1.C. § 36-1-3-9(c), Indianapolis may only exercise its powers inside the boundaries of a county other than Marion County only if the other county and Indianapolis enter into an interlocal cooperation agreement under |.C. 36-1-7, by ordinance; and

WHEREAS, Indianapolis and Hancock County, individually and collectively, have determined that the
Project will be of public utility and benefit; and

WHEREAS, accordingly, Indianapolis and Hancock County desire to enter into an interlocal cooperation agreement pursuant to the authority of I.C. §§ 8-17-1-45(b), 36-1-3-9(c) and 36-1-7- 2 to allow
Indianapolis to acquire, manage and regulate right-of-way and conduct construction activities for the Project on the east side of Carroll Road within the borders of Hancock County; and

WHREAS, the form of the interlocal cooperation agreement is attached hereto as Exhibit A (the “Interlocal Cooperation Agreement”); and

WHEREAS, the City-County Council, having considered the matter and being duly advised, finds that it will be of public utility and benefit for Indianapolis to enter into the Interlocal Cooperation Agreement with
Hancock County; now, therefore:

BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND MARION COUNTY, INDIANA:

SECTION 1. The City-County Council hereby approves the Interlocal Cooperation Agreement in subsiantially the form attached hereto as Exhibit A, which is incorporated herein by reference. The Director of the Department of Public Works is hereby authorized to finalize, execute, and deliver the Interlocal Cooperation
Agreement on behalf of the Consolidated City of indianapolis and Marion County, and the Clerk of the City-
County Council is hereby authorized to attest to the Council's approval of the Interlocal Cooperation
Agreement.

SECTION 2. A copy of this Special Ordinance and the Interlocal Cooperation Agreement attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference shall be kept on file with the Clerk of the City-County Council for public inspection.

SECTION 3. This Special Ordinance shall be in full force and effect upon its passage by the City- County
Council and compliance with IC 36-3-4-14.

SPECIAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2022

[Page 2 of 9]
S.O. No. 14, 2022
Page 2

The foregoing was passed by the City-County Council this 34 day of October, 2022, at 7:32 p.m.

ATTEST:

-, rt Vop Osili
Pb Tug hos Presidgat; City-County Council

SaRita Hughes
Clerk, City-County Council

Presented by me to the Mayor this 4" day of October, 2022.

oe Dp oh
ot Wh [haghes
SaRita Hughes

Clerk, City-County Council

7 off

0
H. Hodsett, Mayor

Approved and signed by me this Sith day of October, 2022.

STATE OF INDIANA, MARION COUNTY)
) $s:
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS )

|, SaRita Hughes, Clerk of the City-County Council, Indianapolis, Marion County, Indiana, do hereby certify

the above and foregoing is a full, true, and complete copy of Proposal No. 339, 2022, a Proposal for a

SPECIAL ORDINANCE passed by the City-County Council on the 3" day of October, 2022, by a vote of 24

YEAS and 0 NAYS, and was retitled Special Ordinance No. 14, 2022, which was signed by the Mayor on the
SE day of October, 2022, and now remains on file and on record in my office.

pu, ra
WITNESS my hand and the official seal of the City of Indianapolis, Indiana, this Sad

Ph Wlag hos

day of October, 2022.

SaRita Hughes
Clerk, City-County Council
(SEAL)

SPECIAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2022

[Page 3 of 9]
S.O. No. 14, 2022
Page 3
Exhibit A
(Form of Interlocal Cooperation Agreement)

INTERLOCAL COOPERATION AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
THE CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS
BY AND THROUGH ITS DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS AND
HANCOCK COUNTY
REGARDING CARROLL ROAD DRAINAGE IMPROVEMENTS

This Interlocal Cooperation Agreement (“Agreement”) is entered into by and between the Consolidated City of Indianapolis and Marion County, Indiana (“Indianapolis”), acting by and through its Department of Public Works, and Hancock County, Indiana, acting by and through its Highway Department (“Hancock County”), related to drainage improvements along Carroll Road.

RECITALS

WHEREAS, pursuant to I.C. § 8-17-1-45, each county is responsible for the construction, reconstruction, maintenance, and operation of the roads, including the ditches and signs for those roads, making up its southern and eastern boundaries; and

WHEREAS, Carroll Road forms the boundary between Hancock County and Marion County and is the eastern boundary of Marion County; therefore, Indianapolis is responsible for Carroll Road; and

WHEREAS, Indianapolis, through its Department of Public Works ("DPW") has prepared plans and specifications for the replacement of a culvert in or about the 4000 block of South Carroll Road identified as
Indianapolis Asset BK0954, DPW Project Number CL-42-024 (the “Project”); and

WHEREAS, in order to construct the Project, it is necessary for Indianapolis to acquire, manage and regulate right-of-way and conduct construction activities on the east side of Carroll Road within the borders of
Hancock County; and

WHEREAS, Indianapolis has the power to acquire real property and may exercise that power within four (4) miles outside its boundaries pursuant to I.C. § 36-1-4-5; and

WHEREAS, Indianapolis has the power to use, improve, develop, insure, protect, maintain, lease, and dispose of its interests in property and may exercise that power within four (4) miles outside its boundaries pursuant to ILC. § 36-1-4-6; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to I.C. § 36-1-3-9(c), Indianapolis may exercise such powers in a county other than
Marion County only if the other county and it enter into an interlocal cooperation agreement under |.C. 36-1-7 by ordinance; and

WHEREAS, Indianapolis and Hancock County, individually and collectively, have determined that the
Project will be of public utility and benefit, and

WHEREAS, accordingly, Indianapolis and Hancock County enter into this Agreement pursuant to the authority of LC. §§ 8-17-1-45(b), 36-1-3-9(c) and 36-1-7-2 to allow Indianapolis to acquire right- ofway, to manage such right-of-way, and to conduct construction activities within the boundaries of Hancock County as necessary for completion of the Project.

NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing premises, which are incorporated herein by reference, the terms and conditions contained herein, and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, Indianapolis and Hancock County agree as follows:

Representations. Each party represents to the other party that:

a. It will submit this Agreement for approval by the party’s fiscal body as required by I.C. § 36- 1-7-4.

[Page 4 of 9]
b.

S.0. No. 14, 2022
Page 4

Subject to approval by the party's fiscal body, it has all requisite power, authority, and legal right to enter into and carry out the obligations set forth in this Agreement.

Subject to approval by the party’s fiscal body, it will execute this Agreement by an authorized representative, upon which execution this Agreement will constitute a valid, legally binding obligation of the party, enforceable by its terms, and the party is estopped from making a claim based upon the unenforceability of this Agreement.

Obligations of Indianapolis. Indianapolis, through DPW, shail be the lead on the Project and shall

have the following obligations hereunder:

a.

b.

d.

Appoint a representative to act as liaison with Hancock County.

Submit to Hancock County the design and construction plans and specifications for review and approval and cooperate with Hancock County with regard to any comments it may have regarding the plans and specifications, subject to Section 3 hereof.

Perform all activities necessary to construct the Project, including but not ed to design, engineering, environmental due diligence, testing and remediation, utility relocation, public bidding and contracting, construction, and construction inspection, at its sole cost and expense.

Acquire all right-of-way required to construct the Project, including within the boundaries of Hancock
County by whatever means it deems necessary and appropriate, including through the exercise of eminent domain, at its sole cost and expense. Any such property interests acquired by Indianapolis shall be held in the name of Indianapolis.

Comply with all federal, state, and local laws, statutes, ordinances, rules, and regulations applicable to the Project, at its sole cost and expense.

Obtain all necessary permits required to construct the Project, at its sole cost and expense.
Maintain the Project improvements, at its sole cost and expense.

Regulate, by ordinance, regulation, or otherwise, all uses of the right-of-way acquired for the Project, including within the boundaries of Hancock County.

Following approval and execution of this Agreement, record this Agreement with the Office of the
Hancock County Recorder and the Office of the Marion County Recorder as required by I.C. § 36-1-7- 6.

Within sixty (60) days of the Effective Date of this Agreement (as defined in Section 6 below), file a copy of this Agreement with the Indiana State Board of Accounts as required by I.C. § 36-1-7-6.

Obligations of Hancock County. Hancock County shall have the following obligations hereunder:

a.

b.

Appoint a representative to act as liaison with Indianapolis.

Cooperate with Indianapolis in the review of the design and construction plans and specifications for the Project. Hancock County’s approval shall not be unreasonably withheld. Hancock County shall respond with its comments and/or approval of the plans and specifications within fifteen (15) days of submittal by Indianapolis. Failure by Hancock County to respond within this timeframe shall be deemed an approval of the plans and specifications by the City.

Cooperate with Indianapolis and its contractor in obtaining any permits required by any agency of
Hancock County.

[Page 5 of 9]
8.

S.O. No. 14, 2022
Page 5

d. Consent to the acquisition of right-of-way required to construct the Project by Indianapolis within the boundaries of Hancock County, including consent for Indianapolis to exercise eminent domain to acquire such right-of-way if necessary. For the avoidance of doubt, by entering into this Agreement
Hancock County hereby consents to Indianapolis acquiring such right-of-way.

€. Consent to the regulation of the uses of the right-of-way acquired for the Project within the boundaries of Hancock County by Indianapolis. For the avoidance of doubt, by entering into this Agreement
Hancock County hereby consents to Indianapolis subjecting the right-of-way acquired for the Project in
Hancock County to its ordinances, rules, and regulations regarding the use of public right-of-way.

f. Consent to Indianapolis maintaining the Project improvements within the boundaries of Hancock
County. For the avoidance of doubt, by entering into this Agreement Hancock County hereby consents to Indianapolis maintaining the Project improvements within its borders.

Notwithstanding any provision in this Agreement to the contrary, Hancock County shall not be financially responsible for any cost associated with the Project.

No Joint Undertaking. The parties hereby acknowledge and agree that the purpose and intent of this
Agreement is not to undertake the joint exercise of power within the meaning of 1.C. § 36- 1-7-2(a) and, therefore, this Agreement need not address other matters related fo the financing, staffing, budget, administration through a joint board or separate legal entity, or the manner of acquiring, holding, and disposing of real and personal property of a joint undertaking. There will be no jointly held property under this Agreement.

Dispute Resolution. Any disputes that may arise under this Agreement shall be resolved by the parties’ respective executive officers, or their designees. Failing resolution by the executive officers, the parties shall submit the dispute to mediation. Failing resolution of the dispute by mediation, either party may institute a suit in a court of law as provided for in Section 12 hereof.

Effective Date. This Agreement shall be effective upon the latest date of: (a) adoption of appropriate resolutions or ordinances approving this Agreement by the fiscal body of each party;

(b) execution by the parties; or (c) recordation of this Agreement with the Recorder of Hancock County and the Recorder of Marion County.

Term.

a. This Agreement shall be in effect until completion of the Project.

b. Section 7.a. notwithstanding, the following Sections shall survive termination or expiration of this
Agreement, unless otherwise specifically terminated by written agreement of the parties:

i. Sections 2.g. and 3.f. concerning maintenance of the Project improvements.
ii. Sections 2.h. and 3.e. concerning regulation of right-of-way by Indianapolis.

Section 5 concerning dispute resolution.
iv. Section 9 concerning indemnification.
v. Section 12 concerning applicable law and venue.

Notice.

a. With regard to routine communications concerning the Project and communications regarding review and approval of Project plans and specifications for review and approval under Sections 2.b. and 3.b., the parties’ respective authorized representatives may communicate directly by whatever means they

deem most effective and efficient.

b. Any other type of formal notice required to be provided under this Agreement shall be sent by internationally recognized overnight courier, certified mail, facsimile, or other delivery method which

5

[Page 6 of 9]
9.

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

below.

S.O. No. 14, 2022
Page 6
provides confirmation of receipt and shall be directed to the persons and addresses specified below (or such other persons and/or addresses as any party may indicate by giving notice to the other party):

To Hancock County: To Indianapolis:

Hancock County Highway Department Department of Public Works

Attention: County Engineer Attention: Director

921 W. Osage Street City of Indianapolis

Greenfield, IN 46140 200 East Washington Street, Suite 2460

Indianapolis, IN 46204
Indemnification.

a. Indianapolis hereby agrees to indemnify, defend, exculpate, and hold harmless Hancock County, its officers, employees and agents, from and against any and all claims, suits, and liabilities of any kind or character, including reasonable attorneys’ fees (Claims”), which result or arise from any negligent acts or omissions of Indianapolis or those for whom Indianapolis is responsible, including its officers, employees, agents and contractors, arising from or connected with the performance of any of indianapolis’s duties or obligations under this Agreement, including construction and maintenance of the Project. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, the obligation of Indianapolis to indemnify, defend, exculpate, and hold harmless Hancock County shall only arise if Indianapolis would also be liable under the Indiana Tort Claims Act, |.C. 34-13-3 (the “[TCA”), as may be amended from time to time. Furthermore, the liability of Indianapolis shall be limited by the provisions of the ITCA, as may be amended from time.

b. Hancock County agrees to indemnify, defend, exculpate, and hold harmiess Indianapolis, its officers, employees, and agents, from and against Claims, including reasonable attorneys’ fees, which result or arise from any negligent acts or omissions of Hancock County or those for whom Hancock Counly is responsible, including its officers, employees, agents, and contractors, arising from or connected with the performance of any of the duties or obligations of Hancock County under this Agreement.
Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, the obligation of Hancock County to indemnify, defend, exculpate, and hold Indianapolis harmless shall only arise if the Hancock County would also be liable under the ITCA, as may be amended from time to time. Furthermore, the liability of Hancock County shall be limited by the provisions of the TCA, as may be amended from time to time.

Modification. The parties may alter, change, or amend the terms and conditions of this Agreement only by

mutual written agreement approved by the fiscal body of each party.

Entire Agreement. This Agreement constitutes the entire and complete agreement between the parties with respect to its subject matter, supersedes any prior discussions, negotiations, and understandings between them, and cannot be altered, changed, or amended except as provided for in Section 10 hereof. The parties acknowledge that neither Indianapolis or Hancock County, nor any of their respective officers, employees, or agents, have made any representations relied upon by any other party other than the agreements contained herein.

able Law; Venue. This Agreement shall be construed in accordance with the laws of the State of indiana. This Agreement shall include, and incorporate by reference, any provision, covenant, or condition required or provided by law or by regulation of any state or federal regulatory or funding agency. Suit, if any, shall be brought in a court of competent jurisdiction in the State of Indiana, County of Shelby.

Interpretation. The parties hereby acknowledge and agree that is Agreement is the result of negotiations between the parties and their respective legal counsel, and no party shall be deemed to be the drafter of this Agreement. The language of all parts of this Agreement shall in all cases be construed as a whole, according to its fair meaning and not strictly for or against either party.

Severability. If any provision of this Agreement is held to be invalid, illegal, or unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, the provision shall be stricken, and all other provisions of this Agreement which can operate independently of such stricken provisions shall continue in full force and effect.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement on the dates specified

[Page 7 of 9]
S.0. No. 14, 2022
Page 7

HANCOCK COUNTY, INDIANA

By: [Name], [Title]
STATE OF INDIANA )
) Ss:
COUNTY OF HANCOCK )
Date:

Before me, the undersigned Notary Public in and for said County and State, personally appeared ;
the of Hancock County, Indiana, who acknowledged the execution of the foregoing
Interlocal Cooperation Agreement for and on behalf of Hancock County, indiana.

Witnesses my hand and Notarial Seal this day of , 2022.

Commission Expiration Date Notary Public Signature

County of Residence Notary Public Signature

Approved by the Hancock County Council by ordinance adopted , 2022.
ATTEST:

[Name], Secretary of the Hancock

County Council

CONSOLIDATED CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS
AND MARION COUNTY, by and through its
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS

By: Date:
Daniel J. Parker, Director
STATE OF INDIANA )
)$s:
COUNTY OF MARION )

Before me, the undersigned Notary Public in and for said County and State, personally appeared Daniel J.
Parker, the Director of the Department of Public Works of the Consolidated City of Indianapolis and Marion County, who acknowledged the execution of the foregoing Interlocal Cooperation Agreement for and on behalf of the
Consolidated City of Indianapolis and Marion County.

Witnesses my hand and Notarial Seal this day of , 2022.
Commission Expiration Date Notary Public Signature
County of Residence Notary Public Signature

[Page 8 of 9]
S.O. No. 14, 2022
Page 8

Approved for Execution: Approved for Form and Legality:
By: By:

Ken Clark, Controller Robert M. Frye,
Special Assistant Corporation Counsel

Approved by the City-County Council of the Consolidated City of Indianapolis and Marion County by Special
Ordinance Number , 2022 adopted , 2022.

ATTEST:

SaRita Hughes, Clerk of the Indianapolis- Marion
County City-County Council

This document was prepared by Robert M. Frye, Special Assistant Corporation Counsel, City of indianapolis, and , Hancock County Attorney.

We affirm, under the penalties for perjury, that | have taken reasonable care to redact each Social Security
Number in this document, unless required by law. /sfRobert M. Frye and

[Page 9 of 9]
Indianapolis City - County Council RCS# 824
2020-2023
2020-2023

10/3/2022 7:32 PM
VOTED AS PART OF

GROUP RCS #821
Proposal: PROP22- 339 Ordinance: S.O. 14 (PASSED)
Sponsor: Mowery
Action: Adopt
Committee: Public Works
Yea: 24 Nay: 0 Abstain: 0 Not Voting: 0 Excused: 1
Yea - 24
Adamson Dilk Jackson Mowery
Annee Evans-E Jones Oliver
Bain Evans-J Larrison Osili
Barth Graves Lewis Potts
Boots Gray Mascari Ray
Carlino Hart McCormick Robinson
Nay -0
Abstain - 0
Excused - 1
Brown

Excused - 0
