[Page 1 of 15]
CITY-COUNTY SPECIAL ORDINANCE NO. 20, 2021
Proposal No. 340, 2021

PROPOSAL FOR A SPECIAL ORDINANCE approving an interlocal cooperation agreement between the
Consolidated City of Indianapolis and Marion County, Indiana (“Indianapolis”) and the City of Beech Grove,
Indiana (“Beech Grove”) to grant Beech Grove a license to use and occupy a portion of the public right-of-way of Thompson Road for the construction, operation, continuation and maintenance of a multi-use path.

WHEREAS, Indianapolis and Beech Grove are each a municipality, and pursuant to IC 36-1-3-9(a), each has exclusive jurisdiction over the streets inside their respective boundaries; and

WHEREAS, Beech Grove has planned and designed a public improvement project to construct a multi- use path known as Thompson Trail, a segment of which is planned to run parallel with and adjacent to
Thompson Road on the north side of and within the right-of-way of Thompson Road from South 9th Street in
Beech Grove to a connection with an existing sidewalk near Emerson Avenue in indianapolis; and

WHEREAS, Thompson Road between Emerson Avenue and Gray Road runs along the boundary between
Indianapolis and Beech Grove, is designated as a thoroughfare by the Marion County Thoroughfare Plan, is a street under the jurisdiction of indianapolis, is heavily traveled and serves the transportation systems and economic well-being of both Indianapolis and Beech Grove; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to IC 36-1-3-9, a municipality may only exercise its powers outside of its boundaries and inside the boundaries of another municipality pursuant to an interlocal cooperation agreement between the two municipalities under I.C. 36-1-7; and

WHEREAS, accordingly, Beech Grove requires the permission of Indianapolis to use the Thompson Road right-of-way for the trail pursuant to an interlocal cooperation agreement and has made a request to do so; and

WHEREAS, the Indianapolis Department of Public Works has considered Beech Grove’s request and has determined that it will be of public utility and benefit to grant Beech Grove a license to use the public right-of- way of Thompson Road to construct, operate, continue and maintain Thompson Trail; and

WHEREAS, Indianapolis and Beech Grove desire to enter into an interlocal cooperation agreement granting Beech Grove a license to use the Thompson Road right-of-way for the trail; and

WHEREAS, IC 36-1-7-4 requires that interlocal cooperation agreements of this nature require the approval of the fiscal body of each municipality by ordinance; and

WHEREAS, the City-County Council is the fiscal body of Indianapolis pursuant to IC 36-1-2-6; and

WHEREAS, the City-County Council, having considered the matter and being duly advised, finds that it will be of public utility and benefit to grant Beech Grove a license to use the Thompson Road right-of-way for the trail; now, therefore:

BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA:

SECTION 1. The City-County Council hereby approves the Interlocal Cooperation Agreement in substantially the form attached hereto as Exhibit A, incorporated herein by reference. The Director of the Department of
Public Works is hereby authorized to finalize, execute and deliver the Interlocal Cooperation Agreement on behalf of the Consolidated City of Indianapolis and Marion County, and the Clerk of the City-County Council is hereby authorized to attest to the Council's approval of the Interlocal Cooperation Agreement.

SECTION 2. A copy of this Special Ordinance and the Interlocal Cooperation Agreement attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference shall be kept on file with the Clerk of the City-County Council for public

inspection.

SECTION 3. This Special Ordinance shail be in full force and effect upon its passage by the City-County Council and compliance with IC 36-3-4-14.

SPECIAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2021

[Page 2 of 15]
S.O. No. 20 2021
Page 2

The foregoing was passed by the City-County Council this 8" day of November, 2021, at 8:27 p.m.

ATTEST:

. Vop Osili
SPR Chegphaa Presidgs

ity-County Council

SaRita Hughes
Clerk, City-County Council

Presented by me to the Mayor this 9'* day of November, 2021.

Pb ag hes
SaRita Hughes "

Clerk, City-County Council

Approved and signed by me this | Ui say of November, 2021.

JeSeph H fHogsett, May:

STATE OF INDIANA, MARION COUNTY)
) Ss:
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS )

|, SaRita Hughes, Clerk of the City-County Council, Indianapolis, Marion County, Indiana, do hereby certify the above and foregoing is a full, true, and complete copy of Proposal No. 340, 2021, a Proposal for a
SPECIAL ORDINANCE passed by the City-County Council on the 8" day of November, 2021, by a vote of 24 YEAS ang ° NAYS and was retitled Special Ordinance No. 20, 2021, which was signed by the Mayor on

the Ue day of November, 2021, and now remains on file and on record in my office.
WITNESS my hand and the official seal of the City of Indianapolis, Indiana, this (ott day of November, 2021,

Ph (hughes

SaRita Hughes
Clerk, City-County Council

(SEAL)

SPECIAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2021

[Page 3 of 15]
INTERLOCAL COOPERATION AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
THE CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS
BY AND THROUGH ITS DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS
AND
THE CiTY OF BEECH GROVE
REGARDGING
USE OF THOMPSON ROAD RIGHT-OF-WAY
FOR THOMPSON TRAIL

This Interlocal Cooperation Agreement (‘Agreement’) is entered into by and between the Consolidated City of Indianapolis and Marion County, Indiana, by and through its Department of Public Works (“Indianapolis”), and the City of Beech Grove, indiana, by and through its Department of Public Works (“Beech Grove”) regarding the use of Thompson Road right-of-way for Thompson Trail.

RECITALS

WHEREAS, Indianapolis and Beech Grove are each a municipality, which, pursuant to |.C. 36-1-3-9(a), have exclusive jurisdiction over the streets inside their respective. boundaries; and

WHEREAS, Thompson Road between Emerson Avenue and Gray Road runs along the boundary between Indianapolis and Beech Grove, is designated as a thoroughfare by the Marion County Thoroughfare Plan, and is heavily traveled and serves the transportation systems and economic well-being of both Indianapolis and
Beech Grove, -and is a street under the jurisdiction of Indianapolis; and

WHEREAS, Beech Grove has planned and designed a public improvement project to construct a multi-use path known as Thompson Trail, a segment of which is planned to run parallel with and adjacent to Thompson Road on the north side of and within the right-of-way of Thompson Road from South 9th Street in Beech Grove to a connection with an existing sidewalk near Emerson Avenue in Indianapolis, as depicted on Exhibit A, attached hereto; and

WHEREAS, Indianapolis has determined that it will be of public utility and benefit to grant Beech Grove a license to use the public right-of-way of Thompson Road to construct, operate, continue and maintain Thompson Trail; and

WHEREAS, Indianapolis has the power to dispose of interests in real property and may exercise that power within four (4) miles outside its boundaries pursuant to I.C.
§ 36-1-4-6; and

WHEREAS, Beech Grove has the power to acquire interests in real property and the power to use, improve, develop, insure, protect, maintain, lease and dispose of

[Page 4 of 15]
interests in real property, and may exercise those powers within four (4) miles outside its boundaries pursuant to |.C. §§ 36-1-4-5 and 36-1-4-6; and

WHEREAS, I.C. § 36-1-11-8 authorizes governmental entities to transfer or exchange real property interests among themselves upon terms and conditions agreed upon by the entities as evidenced by adoption of substantially identical resolutions by each entity; and

WHEREAS, however, pursuant to 1.C. § 36-1-3-9(c}, a municipality may only exercise its powers outside of its boundaries and inside the boundaries of another municipality pursuant to an interlocal cooperation agreement between the municipalities

under |.C. 36-1-7; and

WHEREAS, accordingly, Indianapolis and Beech Grove desire to enter into this
Agreement pursuant to the authority of I.C. §§ 36-1-3-9(c), 36-1-11-8 and 36-1-7-4 to allow for Indianapolis to grant Beech Grove a license to use the public right-of-way of
Thompson Road to construct, operate, continue and mainiain Thompson Trail within the right-of-way of Thompson Road.

NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing recitals, which are hereby incorporated into this Agreement, the mutual promises contained herein, and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties agree as follows:

Representations. Each party represents to the other party that:

a. It will submit this Agreement for approval by the party’s fiscal body as required by 1.C. § 36-1-7-4; and

b. Subject to approval of its fiscal body, it has all requisite power, authority and legal right to enter into and carry out the obligations set forth in this
Agreement; and

c. Subject to approval of its fiscal body, it will execute this Agreement by an authorized representative, upon which execution this Agreement will constitute a valid, legally binding obligation of the party, enforceable by its terms.

2. License for Use of Thempson Road Right-of-Way.

a. Grant_of License. Indianapolis hereunto grants to Beech Grove a non- exclusive license to access, enter upon and use the public right-of-way on the north side of Thompson Road from South 9th Street in Beech Grove to a connection with an existing sidewalk near Emerson Avenue in Indianapolis to construct, operate, continue and maintain a multi-use trail for public use, as depicted on Exhibit A, attached hereto and incorporated herein by this reference,

[Page 5 of 15]
subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement. The license granted hereunder shall run with the land for the duration of the license.

b. Duration of License. The license granted hereunder, and all rights, privileges, authority and obligations of the parties under this Agreement, shall remain in full force and effect for a period of not less than 40 years from the date of substantial completion of construction of Thompson Trail.

C. Recordation; No Vesting. Pursuant to |.C. § 36-1-7-6, this Agreement, when fully. executed, shall be recorded in the Office of the Marion County Recorder and filed with the State Board of Accounts. This Agreement shall create a license only in the Thompson Road right-of-way and shall grant only those rights, privileges, authority and obligations stated herein and shall not operate or be construed to confer upon or vest in Beech Grove any title to the Thompson Road right-of-way.

d. Use of the Thompson Road Right-of-Way. Beech Grove shall use the right-of-way solely for the purposes stated herein, in a safe and prudent manner, and.in compliance with all applicable laws. Beech Grove shall not commit or permit waste or damage to the right-of-way or adjacent properties, or permit or suffer any nuisance, hazardous or unsafe condition to occur or exist thereon.

3. Obligations of Indianapolis. [in addition to granting the license herein, Indianapolis covenants that it will not erect or maintain any structures or obstructions on, over, under, or through the Thompson Road right-of-way which will interfere with the free use thereof by Beech Grove to construct, operate, continue and maintain the
Thompson Trail thereon, except by express permission from Beech Grove, which permission shall be in writing and recorded as an amendment to this Agreement.
Indianapolis further covenants that it will not grant permanent or temporary use or occupancy of the- Thompson Road right-of-way to any third party, except by express permission front Beech Grove, which permission shall be in writing and recorded as an amendment to this Agreement. The foregoing notwithstanding, nothing herein shall prevent a third party which is authorized to use and occupy the public right-of- way, such as a public utility, from so doing.

4. Obligations of Beech Grove.

Beech Grove shall record this Agreement in the
Office of the Marion County Recorder and file it with the State Board of Accounts within 60 days of the Effective Date (as defined in Section 8), at its sole cost and expense.

b. Construction of Trail. Beech Grove shall construct the Thompson Trail within the Thompson Road right-of-way as depicted on Exhibit A in accordance with the plans and specifications prepared for the project and in accordance with all applicable laws, at its sole cost and expense.

[Page 6 of 15]
Cc. Submission of As-Built Drawings. Upon completion of construction, Beech
Grove shall provide to the Indianapolis Department of Public Works as-built construction drawings of the segment of the Thompson Trail that is located within the Thompson Road right-of-way pursuant to this Agreement, at its sole cost and expense.

d. Regulatory and Directional Signage. Beech Grove shall install all signage necessary and proper to direct users of the Thompson Trail, at its sole cost and expense.

e. Maintenance and Repair. Beech Grove shall be responsible for keeping and maintaining the Thompson Trail in good order and repair and in a safe condition for use, at its sole cost and expense.

f. Indemnification. Beech Grove, for and on behalf of itself, its officers, employees, agents and contractors (collectively, the “Indemnitors”), hereby agrees to indemnify, defend, exculpate, and hold harmless the Consolidated City of indianapolis and Marion County, its officers, employees and agents, from and against any and all claims, suits and liabilities of any kind or character, including reasonable attorneys’ fees (“Claims”) which result or arise from any negligent acts or omissions of the Indemnitors or those for whom the Indemnitors are responsible, arising from or connected with the performance of any of the Indemnitors’ duties or responsibilities under this Agreement, including design, construction, operation and maintenance of the Thompson Trail and the use of the Thompson Road right-of- way.

Effective Date. Pursuant to |.C. § 36-1-7-6, this Agreement shall be effective on the date it is recorded with the Office of the Marion County Recorder (the “Effective

Date”).
Notice.

a. For routine communications concerning the construction, operation and maintenance of the Thompson Trail, the parties’ respective authorized representatives may communicate directly by whatever means they deem most effective and efficient.

b. Any other type of formal notice required to be provided under this
Agreement shail be sent by internationally recognized overnight courier, certified mail, facsimile or other delivery method which provides confirmation of receipt and shall be directed to the persons and addresses specified below (or such other persons and/or addresses as any party may indicate by giving notice to the other

party):

[Page 7 of 15]
CITY-COUNTY SPECIAL ORDINANCE NO. 20, 2021
Proposal No. 340, 2021

PROPOSAL FOR A SPECIAL ORDINANCE approving an interlocal cooperation agreement between the
Consolidated City of Indianapolis and Marion County, Indiana (“Indianapolis”) and the City of Beech Grove, indiana (“Beech Grove’) to grant Beech Grove a license to use and occupy a portion of the public right-ofway of Thompson Road for the construction, operation, continuation and maintenance.of a multi-use path.

WHEREAS, Indianapolis and Beech Grove are each a municipality, and pursuant to IC 36-1-3-9(a), each has exclusive jurisdiction over the streets inside their respective boundaries; and

WHEREAS, Beech Grove has planned and designed a public improvement project fo construct a multi- use path known as Thompson Trail, a segment of which is planned to run parallel with and adjacent to
Thompson Road on the north side of and within the right-of-way. of Thompson Road from South 9th Street in
Beech Grove to a connection with an existing sidewalk near Emerson Avenue in Indianapolis; and

WHEREAS, Thompson Road between Emerson Avenue and Gray Road runs along the boundary between
Indianapolis and Beech Grove, is designated as a thoroughfare by the Marion County Thoroughfare Plan, is a street under the jurisdiction of Indianapotis, is heavily traveled and serves the transportation systems and economic well-being of both Indianapolis and Beech Grove; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to IC 36-1-3-9, a mu
and inside the boundaries of another municip
two municipalities under |.C. 36-1-7; and

pality may only exercise its powers outside of its boundaries pursuant to an interlocal cooperation agreement between the

WHEREAS, accordingly, Beech Grove requires the permission of Indianapolis to use the Thompson Road right-of-way for the trail pursuant to an interlocal cooperation agreement and has made a request to do so; and

WHEREAS, the Indianapolis Department of Public Works has considered Beech Grove’s request and has determined that it will be of public utility and benefit to grant Beech Grove a license to use the public right-of way of Thompson Road to construct, operate, continue and maintain Thompson Trail; and

WHEREAS, Indianapolis and Beech Grove desire to enter into an interlocal cooperation agreement granting Beech Grove a license to use the Thompson Road right-of-way for the trail; and

WHEREAS, IC 36-1-7-4 requires that interlocal cooperation agreements of this nature require the approval of the fiscal body of each municipality by ordinance; and

WHEREAS, the City-County Council is the fiscal body of indianapolis pursuant to IC 36-1-2-6; and

WHEREAS, the City-County Council, having considered the matter and being duly advised, finds that it will be of public utility and benefit to grant Beech Grove a license to use the Thompson Road right-of-way for the trail; now, therefore:

BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA:

SECTION 1. The City-County Council hereby approves the Interlocal Cooperation Agreement in substantially the form attached hereto as Exhibit A, incorporated herein by reference. The Director of the Department of
Public Works is hereby authorized to finalize, execute and deliver the Interlocal Cooperation Agreement on behalf of the Consolidated City of Indianapolis and Marion County, and the Clerk of the City-County Council is hereby authorized to attest to the Council's approval of the Interlocal Cooperation Agreement.

SECTION 2. A copy of this Special Ordinance and the Interlocal Cooperation Agreement attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference shall be kept on file with the Clerk of the City-County Council for public inspection.

SECTION 3. This Special Ordinance shall be in full force and effect upon its passage by the City-County Council and compliance with IC 36-3-4-14.

SPECIAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2021

[Page 8 of 15]
8.0. No. 20 2021
Page 2

The foregoing was passed by the City-County Council this 8" day of November, 2021, at 8:27 p.m.

ATTEST:

a a £ Vop Osili
Ed A phos PresidgntCity-County Council

SaRita Hughes
Clerk, City-County Council

Presented by me to the Mayor this 9" day of November, 2021.

SaRita Hughes.
Clerk, City-County Council

Approved and signed by me this day of November, 2021.

joseph H. Hogsett, Mayor

STATE OF INDIANA, MARION COUNTY)
) Ss:
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS )

|, SaRita Hughes, Clerk of the City-County Council, Indianapolis, Marion County, Indiana, do hereby certify the above and foregoing is a full, true, and complete copy of Proposal No. 340, 2021, a Proposal for a
SPECIAL ORDINANCE passed by the City-County Council on the 8" day of November, 2021, by a vote of 24 YEAS and 0 NAYS and was retitled Special Ordinance No. 20, 2021, which was signed by the Mayor on

the day of November, 2021, and now-remains on file and on record in my office.
WITNESS my hand and the official seal of the City of Indianapolis, Indiana, this day of November, 2021.
eos TD . i. 0
Sane

SaRita Hughes
Clerk, City-County Council
(SEAL)

SPECIAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2021

[Page 9 of 15]
10.

11.

12.

To Beech Grove: To Indianapolis:

Mayor Director, Department of Public Works
City of Beech Grove City of indianapolis

801 Main Street 200 East Washington Street, Suite 2460
Beech Grove, IN 46107 Indianapolis, IN 46204

Modification. The parties may alter, change or amend the terms and conditions of this Agreement only by mutual written agreement.

No_ Joint Undertaking. The parties hereby acknowledge and agree that the purpose and intent of this Agreement is not to undertake the joint exercise of power within the meaning of |.C. § 36-1-7-2(a) and, therefore, this Agreement need not address other matters related to the financing, staffing, budget, administration through a joint board or separate legal entity, or the manner of acquiring, holding and disposing of real and personal property of a joint undertaking. There will be no jointly held property under this Agreement.

Dispute Resolution. Any disputes that may arise under this Agreement shall be resolved by the parties’ respective executive officers, or their designees. Failing resolution by the executive officers, the parties shall submit the dispute to mediation. Failing resolution of the dispute by mediation, either party may institute a suit in a court of law as provided for in Section 10 hereof.

Governing Law; Venue. This Agreement shall be construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Indiana. This Agreement shall include, and incorporate by reference, any provision, covenant or condition required or provided by law or by regulation of any state or federal regulatory or funding agency. Suit, if any, shall be brought in a court of competent jurisdiction in Marion County, Indiana.

Entire Agreement. This Agreement constitutes the entire and complete agreement between the parties with respect to its subject matter hereof, supersedes any prior discussions, negotiations, and understandings between them, and cannot be altered, changed or amended except as provided for in
Section 10 hereof. The parties acknowledge that neither Indianapolis or Beech
Grove, nor any of their respective officers, employees, or agents, have made any representations relied upon by any other party other than the agreements contained herein.

Interpretation. The parties hereby acknowledge and agree that is Agreement is the result of negotiations between the parties and their respective legal counsel, and no party shall be deemed to be the drafter of this Agreement. The language of all parts of this Agreement shall in all cases be construed as a whole, according to its fair meaning, and not strictly for or against either party.

[Page 10 of 15]
14. Severability. If any provision of this Agreement is held to be invalid, illegal, or unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, the provision shall be stricken, and all other provisions of this Agreement which can operate independently of such stricken provisions shall continue in full force and effect.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement on the dates specified below.

CITY OF BEECH GROVE

By:
Dennis Buckley, Mayor

Date:

STATE OF INDIANA )
) SS:
COUNTY OF MARION _ )

Before me, the undersigned Notary Public in and for said County and State, personally appeared Dennis Buckley, the Mayor of the City of Beech Grove, Indiana, who acknowledged the execution of the foregoing Interlocal Cooperation Agreement for and on behalf of the City of Beech Grove.

Witnesses my hand and Notarial Seal this day of , 2021.
Commission. Expiration Date Notary Public Signature
County of Residence Notary Public Signature

Approved by the Beech Grove Common Council by special ordinance adopted
; , 2021.

ATTEST: APPROVED AS TO LEGAL FORM:

By: By:
James W. Coffman, Clerk-Treasurer Craig Wiley, City Attorney

[Page 11 of 15]
CONSOLIDATED CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND MARION COUNTY,
by and through its Department of Public Works

By:

Daniel J. Parker, Director

STATE OF INDIANA )
) SS:
COUNTY OF MARION __ )

Before me, the undersigned Notary Public in and for said County and State, personally appeared Daniel J. Parker, Director of the Department of Public Works of the
Consolidated City of Indianapolis and Marion County, who acknowledged the execution of the foregoing Interlocal Cooperation Agreement for and on behalf of the Department of Public Works of the Consolidated City of Indianapolis and Marion County.

Witnesses my hand and Notaria! Seal this day of , 20
Commission Expiration Date Notary Public Signature
County of Residence Notary Public Signature

Approved by the City-County Council of the Consolidated City of Indianapolis and
Marion County by Special Ordinance , 2021 adopted ; , 2021.

ATTEST:

By:
SaRita Hughes, Clerk

APPROVED FOR EXECUTION: APPROVED AS TO LEGAL FORM:

By: By:
Ken Clark, Controlier Robert M. Frye, Special
Assistant Corporation Counsel

[Page 12 of 15]
This document was prepared by Robert M. Frye, Special Assistant Corporation
Counsel, City of Indianapolis, and Craig Wiley, City Attorney, City of Beech Grove.

We affirm, under the penalties for perjury, that | have taken reasonable care to redact each Social Security Number in this document, unless required by law. /s/Robert M.
Frye and /s/Craig Wiley

[Page 13 of 15]
EXHIBIT A

[Page 14 of 15]
JS. 9th Ave.

Thompson Rd.

a A
‘Thompson Rd.

S" Emerson Ave.

Thompson Rd.

Bancroft St.

CITY OF BEECH GROVE
THOMPSON ROAD TRAIL PROJECT

EXHIBIT A

[Page 15 of 15]
Indianapolis City - County Council RCS# 354
2020-2023
2020-2023

11/8/2021 8:27 PM

Proposal: PROP21- 340 Ordinance: S.O. 20 (PASSED)
Sponsor: Mascari
Action: Adopt
Committee: Public Works

Yea: 24 Nay: 0 Abstain: 0 Not Voting: 0 Excused: 1
Yea - 24
Adamson Dilk Jackson Mowery
Annee Evans-E Jones Oliver
Bain Evans-J Larrison Osili
Barth Graves Lewis Potts
Boots Gray Mascari Ray
Brown Hart McCormick Robinson
Nay - 0
Abstain - 0
Excused - 1
Carlino

Excused - 0
