[Page 1 of 7]
CITY-COUNTY GENERAL RESOLUTION NO. 21, 2021
Proposal No. 346, 2021

A PROPOSAL FOR A GENERAL RESOLUTION to adopt an investment policy authorizing the investment of public funds of Marion County and to authorize the investing officer of the Marion County Treasurer’s
Office to make investments having a stated final maturity that is: (1) more than two (2) years; but (2) not more than five (5) years; after the date of purchase or entry into a repurchase agreement.

WHEREAS, IC 5-13-9-1 grants authority to the Marion County Treasurer to invest public funds; and
WHEREAS, IC 5-13-7 establishes the Marion County Board of Finance; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to IC 5-13-7-7, the Marion County Board of Finance must annually review the overall Investment policy of the county, the consolidated city, and the school city; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to IC 5-13-9-5.7(a), the City-County Council of the Consolidated City of
Indianapolis and Marion County, Indiana (“City-County Council”) may “adopt an investment policy authorizing the investment of public funds of the political subdivision for more than two (2) years and not more than five (5) years”; now, therefore:

BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA:

SECTION 1. The City-County Council, pursuant to IC 5-13-9-5.7(a), hereby adopts the Marion County
Treasurer's Office Investment Policy, which is attached fo this resolution as EXHIBIT A.

SECTION 2. The City-County Council, pursuant to IC 5-13-9-5.7(c), hereby authorizes the Marion County
Treasurer, as investing officer for Marion County, to make investments having a stated final maturity that is: (1) more than two (2) years; but (2) not more than five (5) years; after the date of purchase or entry into a repurchase agreement.

SECTION 3. Should any provision (section, paragraph, sentence, clause, or any other portion) of this resolution be declared by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, the remaining provision or provisions shall not be affected, if and only if such remaining provisions can, without the invalid provision or provisions, be given the effect intended by the Council in adopting this resolution. To this end the provisions of this resolution are severable.

SECTION 4. This resolution shall be in effect from and after its passage by the Council and compliance with Ind. Code § 36-3-4-14.

The foregoing was passed by the City-County Council this 6" day of December, 2021, at 8:15 p.m.

ATTEST:

ity-County Council

SaRita Hughes
Clerk, City-County Council

Presented by me to the Mayor this 7 day of December, 2021.

SSP
SaRitaHughes =
Clerk, City-County Council

GENERAL RESOLUTION RECORD 2021

[Page 2 of 7]
G.R. No. 21, 2021
Page 2

Approved and signed by me this 2 sth day of December, 2021.

H. Ho§sett, Mayor

|, SaRita Hughes, Clerk of the City-County Council, Indianapolis, Marion County, Indiana, do hereby certify the above and foregoing is a full, true, and complete copy of Proposal No. 346, 2021, a Proposal for a
GENERAL RESOLUTION passed by the City-County Council on the 6" day of December, 2021, by a vote of 22 YEAS and 0 NAYS and was retitled General Resolution No. 21, 2021, which was signed by the Mayor on the Li day of December, 2021, and now remains on file and on record in my office.

WITNESS my hand and the official seal of the City of Indianapolis, Indiana, this <A day of December, 2021.

STATE OF INDIANA, MARION COUNTY)
) SS:
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS )

SaRita Hughes
Clerk, City-County Council
(SEAL)

GENERAL RESOLUTION RECORD 2021

[Page 3 of 7]
TREASURER OF MARION COUNTY
INDIANAPOLIS, INDIANA

INVESTMENT POLICY
DATED OCTOBER , 2021

1. PURPOSE

It is the policy of the Marion County Treasurer’s Office to invest public funds in a manner which will provide the highest investment return with the maximum security while meeting the daily cash flow demands and conforming to all state and local statutes governing the investment of public funds and in accordance with Title 5, Article 13 of the Indiana Code.

This policy is designed to ensure and promote the prudent management of public funds, the availability of operating and capital funds when needed, and an investment return competitive with those of comparable funds and financial market indexes.

2. OBJECTIVES

The primary objectives of the Marion County Treasurer’s investment activities, in priority order, are:

* to conform with all applicable federal, state, local and other legal requirements (legal);

¢ to adequately safeguard principal (safety);

* to provide sufficient liquidity to meet all operating requirements (liquidity); and

* to obtain a reasonable rate of return (yield).

3. DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY

Investment authority is vested with the Marion County Treasurer but delegated to authorized personnel of the Marion County Treasurer's staff. Designated and appropriate staff have full discretion for selecting financial institutions within the limits of state statute and local ordinance.

4. INVESTMENT PHILOSOPHY

All participants in the investment process shall seek to honorably serve as custodians of the public trust and shall avoid any transaction that may diminish public confidence in the
Marion County Treasurer to govern effectively.

Investments shall be made with impartial judgment and consideration, under circumstances then prevailing, which persons of prudence, discretion, and intelligence exercise in the management of their own affairs, not for speculation, but for investment, considering the safety of the principal as well as the probable income to be derived.

All participants involved in the investment process shall refrain from personal business activity that could conflict with proper execution of the investment program or could impair their ability to make impartial investment decisions.

[Page 4 of 7]
INVESTMENT POLICY Marion COUNTY TREASURER Pace 2

5. DIVERSIFICATION

It is the policy of the Marion County Treasurer to diversify its deposits and investments by financial institution, investment instrument, and maturity scheduling. The investment portfolio will be diversified to avoid incurring undue concentration in securities of one type or securities of one financial institution, so that no single investment or class of investments can have a disproportionate impact on the total portfolio. This restriction does not apply to
U.S. Treasury securities or federal agency securities.

6. INTERNAL CONTROLS

IC 5-13-6-1 requires that all public funds collected by any officer or employee of the government to deposit those funds not later than the business day following the receipt of funds. All funds eligible for investment shali be invested as soon as reasonably possible.

The employee(s) assigned by the Marion County Treasurer to be responsible for cash management will: establish and maintain an internal control structure to provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance that deposits and investments are safeguarded against loss from unauthorized use or disposition; ensure that transactions are executed in accordance with management's authorization and recorded properly; and guarantee that funds are managed in compliance with applicable laws and regulations.

7. DESIGNATION OF DEPOSITORIES
The financial institutions authorized for the deposits of funds are those that are approved as
Public Depositories by the Indiana State Board of Finance.

8. PERMITTED INVESTMENTS

The Marion County Treasurer authorizes funds not required for immediate expenditure for

terms not to exceed its projected cash flow may be invested in the following types of

investments as permitted in Title 5, Article 13 of the Indiana Code:

¢ Certificates of Deposit

e Repurchase Agreements

e Passbook savings accounts

e Money market deposit accounts

« Local government investment pool {IC 36-1-7-4 and City-County Council Resolution No.
58, 1999)

e Money market mutual funds

e Securities Lending

« Municipal securities issued by an Indiana local governmental entity, a quasi- governmental entity related to the state, or a unit of government, municipal corporation, or special taxing district in Indiana, if the issuer has not defaulted on any of the issuer's obligations within the twenty (20) years preceding the date of the purchase.

e Obligations of the United States of America

« Obligations guaranteed by agencies of the United States of America where the payment of principal and interest are guaranteed by the United States of America

[Page 5 of 7]
INVESTMENT POLICY Marion COUNTY TREASURER Pace 3

« Securities backed by the full faith and credit of the United States Treasury or fully guaranteed by the United States or issued by any of the following:
(A) The United States Treasury;
(B} A federal agency;
(C) A federal instrumentality; or
(D) A federal government sponsored enterprise.
e Discount notes issued by any of the following:
{A} A federal agency;
(B) A federal instrumentality; or
(C) A federal government sponsored enterprise.
e® Other deposits and investments of funds as described in Title 5, Article 13 of the Indiana
Code.

All investment obligations shall be payable or redeemable at the option of the Marion
County Treasurer within such times as the proceeds will be needed to meet expenditures for purposes for which the funds were provided. In no instance shall any maturity exceed the statutory time.

9, PROHIBITED INVESTMENTS AND INVESTMENT PRACTICES

The following types of investments are prohibited:

e Purchases on margin or short sales.

e Derivative securities that are, in effect, a leveraged bet on future movements of interest rates or some price index. Collateralized mortgage obligations, because of their complexity and prepayment rate uncertainty, are prohibited.

10. PURCHASE OF INVESTMENTS

All. purchased obligations, unless registered or inscribed in the name of the local government, shall be purchased through, delivered to, and held in the custody of a financial institution. Such obligations shall be purchased, sold, or presented for redemption or payment by such financial institution only in accordance with prior written authorization from the employee authorized to make the investment. All such transactions shall be confirmed in writing to the Marion County Treasurer by the financial institution. Any obligation held in custody of the financial institution shall be held pursuant to a written custodial agreement as described in general municipal Jaw.

The custodial agreement shall provide that securities held by the financial institution, as agent of and custodian for the local government, will be kept separate and apart from the general assets of the custodial financial institution and will not, under any circumstance, be commingled with or become part of the backing for any other deposit or other liabilities.
The agreement shall describe how the custodian shall confirm the receipt and release of the securities. Such agreement shail include all provisions necessary to provide the local government a perfected interest in the securities.

The custodian shall accept safekeeping receipts or other reporting for securities from a financial institution located either in or out of Indiana having custody of securities with a

[Page 6 of 7]
INVESTMENT POLICY Marion County TREASURER Pace 4

combined capital and surplus of at least ten million dollars ($10,000,000) according to the last statement of condition filed by the financial institution with its governmental supervisory body.

11. DIVERSITY, EQUITY, INCLUSION, AND COMMUNITY

Investments are encouraged in entities that support community well-being through safe and environmentally sound practices and fair labor practices. Investments are encouraged in entities that support equality of rights regardiess of sex, race, age, disability or sexual orientation. Investments are encouraged in entities that promote community economic development. Investments are encouraged in financial institutions that have a Community
Reinvestment Act (CRA) rating of either Satisfactory or Outstanding, as well as financial institutions that are designated as a Community Development Financial Institution (CDFI) by the United States Treasury Department, or otherwise demonstrate commitment to community economic development.

12. MAXIMUM MATURITIES

The Marion County Treasurer may invest in securities for more than (2) years and not more than five (5) years in accordance with IC 5-13-9-5.7. The total investments outstanding under this policy shall not exceed 25% of the total portfolio of public funds invested by the
Marion County Treasurer, including balances in transaction accounts. The remaining balance of investments must be for a maturity of two (2) years or less.

13. CONCLUSION

This policy has been promulgated by the Marion County Treasurer to formalize prudent investment policies and procedures that will meet investment objectives of the Treasurer.
This policy is to be reviewed by the Marion County Treasurer as new investment legislation becomes law, as staff expertise changes, and/or as necessitated by other external and internal factors.

This Investment Policy for the Marion County Treasurer is effective as of , 2021 and, in accordance with IC 5-13-9-5.7(a)(6), expires on , 2024

Signed: Date:
Barbara A. Lawrence
Marion County Treasurer

[Page 7 of 7]
Indianapolis City - County Council RCS# 420
2020-2023
2020-2023

12/6/2021 8:15 PM

Proposal: PROP21- 346 Ordinance: G.R. 21 (PASSED)
Sponsor: Mascari
Action: Adopt
Committee: Admin and Fin

Yea: 22 Nay: 0 Abstain: 0 Not Voting: 0 Excused: 3
Yea - 22
Adamson Carlino Jones Mowery
Annee Dilk Larrison Oliver
Bain Evans-E Lewis
Barth Graves Mascari
Boots Gray McCormick Robinson
Brown Jackson
Nay - 0
Abstain - 0
Excused - 3
Evans-J Hart Ray

Excused - 0
