[Page 1 of 1]
1 
STATE OF INDIANA          ) 
             ) 
COUNTY OF MARION         ) 
            ) 
METROPOLITAN DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION ) 
 ) 
CERTIFICATION AND REPORT OF ZONING PETITIONS     ) 
 
I, Edward D. Honea, Jr., Interim Current Planning Administrator, Department of 
Metropolitan Development, certify that at the meeting of the Metropolitan Development 
Commission of Marion County, Indiana, held on May 21, 2025, a public hearing as required  by law pursuant to required statutory legal notice hereof published in the "Indianapolis Star”  and “Court and Commercial Record" newspapers of general circulation in Marion County, 
Indiana, said Metropolitan Development Commission acted upon the proposed zoning  ordinance amendment prayed for in petition:  
 
2025-CZN-809    8800 East Raymond Street (Approximate Address) 
Prop No. 356, 2025  Warren Township, Council District #20 
R.O. No. 115, 2025  Alexander Construction and Landscape, by David Retherford 
Rezoning of 4.37 acres from the C-5 district to the I-2 district to  provide for a commercial and building contractor’s business. 
 
I FURTHER CERTIFY that the attached ordinance is a true copy of the ordinance  prayed for in said above-listed petitions, and the Metropolitan Development Commission of 
Marion County, Indiana, by a majority of its members, adopted, approved, and recommended   2025-CZN-809 to the City-County Council for adoption to the end that adequate light, air,  convenience of access and safety from fire, flood, and other danger may be secured, that  property values may be preserved and that the public health, comfort, morals, and  convenience and general welfare may be preserved. 
 
I FURTHER CERTIFY that the records of the Metropolitan Development Commission  of Marion County, Indiana, with regard to the above ordinance is as indicated on the attached  chart, which is incorporated herein by reference and made a part hereof. 
 
I WITNESS my hand and official seal of the Metropolitan Development Commission of 
Marion County, Indiana, this 8th day of October 2025. 
 
sEdward D. Honea, Jr. 
Current Planning Administrator and Principal Planner II 
Division of Planning 
Department of Metropolitan Development 
 
EDH:ngw 
 
COMMISSION SEAL
