[Page 1 of 4]
CITY-COUNTY GENERAL ORDINANCE NO. 42, 2021
Proposal No. 357, 2021

PROPOSAL FOR A GENERAL ORDINANCE to amend the Revised Code to make various changes to
Chapter 621, Parking, standing and stopping restricted.

BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA:

SECTION 1. That the Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County, Indianapolis/Marion County,
Indiana, specifically Sec. 621-110, Parking privileges for physically handicapped persons., be, and the same is hereby amended by the deletion of the language that is stricken-through and by the addition of the language that is underscored, to read as follows:

Sec. 621-110. - - Accessible parking for persons

(a) The department of public works of the City of Indianapolis is hereby authorized and empowered to grant physically-handicapped_persens_to persons with physical disabilities the exclusive use of parking space adjacent to or directly across the street from their residence and place of employment, subject to such rules and regulations as the department of public works may prescribe in areas where such parking is otherwise permitted and not restricted, in the manner provided herein.

(b) * Persons with physical disabilities” as used in this section means any person certified by a qualified physician to be disabied in a manner rendering it impossible or difficult and burdensome for him or her to walk for an extended period of time (such as one (1) year).

(c) Any person eligible for accessible parking by virtue of a physical disability under this section shall present to the department of public works a written application, on a form furnished by the department, for a permit entitling that person to the exclusive use for a period of ene-(4) up fo three (3) calendar years from date of issue of one (1) parking space adjacent to or directly across the street from the applicant's place of residence and one (1) parking space adjacent to or directly across the street from the applicant's place of employment, where applicable. Such application shall include a certificate by a qualified physician verifying that the applicant is a physically-handicapped person with a

hysical disability as defined in this section. Such an application for parking at a place of employment shall include evidence of approval by the employer.

If the applicant seeks parking space across the street from his place of residence or employment, he shall also present written consent from the owner or tenant of the real estate in front of which the applicant's parking space will be located. The written consent be on a form approved by the department of public works.

(d) Upon receipt of such written application, the department of public works shall, within a reasonable time, grant or deny the permit so applied for, subject to the following conditions:

(1) No applicant shall be granted a permit for more than one (1) reserved space adjacent to or directly across the street from his place of residence and one (1) reserved space adjacent to or directly across the street from his place of employment.

(2) No applicant shall be granted a permit who has access to off-street parking at his place of residence and place of employment: with the exception that the department may in its discretion grant a permit to an applicant who is able to demonstrate that the location of such off-street parking renders it unduly burdensome for him to utilize same.

(3) Each permit granted pursuant to the provisions of this section shall be assigned an identification number.

(e) Upon the grant of such permit, the department of public works shall:
(1) Issue to the applicant a reserved space permit with an identification number.

(2) Mark the space(s) reserved by distinctive painting on the curb.
GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2021

[Page 2 of 4]
G.O. No. 42, 2021
Page 2

(3) Install a sign restricting use of the space to the permit holder only, which sign shall show thereon the holder's permit number.

(4) Upon request by the permit holder, authorize construction of one (1) curb ramp within the reserved area, at the permit holder's expense.

(f} From and after the granting of such permit, the permit holder shall:

(1) Display the reserved space permit in the windshield of any vehicle used by the permit holder and parked in the reserved space.

(2) Promptly notify the department of public works when he or she will no longer regularly use the parking space(s) allocated to the permit because of a change of residence or employment.

Any failure by a permit holder to comply with the above requirements shall be grounds for refusal by the department of public works to issue such a permit to such person thereafter, or to revoke such permit prior to expiration, or to make the issuance of further permits subject to reasonable conditions.

(g) Parking of a vehicle by any person in a space reserved hereunder without a visible permit showing such parking to be authorized shall be unlawful and shall subject the owner and driver of the vehicle so parked to the penaities provided for violations of this chapter.

SECTION 2. The expressed or implied repeal or amendment by this ordinance of any other ordinance or part of any other ordinance does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this ordinance. Those rights, liabilities, and proceedings are continued, and penalties shall be imposed and enforced under the repealed or amended ordinance as if this ordinance had not been adopted.

SECTION 3. Should any provision (section, paragraph, sentence, clause, or any other portion) of this ordinance be declared by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, the rem: isi or provisions shall not be affected, if and only if such remaining provisions can, without the inval provisions, be given the effect intended by the Council in adopting this ordinance. To this end the provisions of this ordinance are severable.

SECTION 4. This ordinance shall be in effect from and after its passage by the Council and compliance with
Ind. Code § 36-3-4-14.

The foregoing was passed by the City-County Council this 6" day of December, 2021, at 8:19 p.m.

ATTEST:

> Vop Osili

. 4 }
APRA Dug hos Presidgnt, City-County Council

SaRita Hughes
Clerk, City-County Council

SaRita Hughes
Clerk, City-County Council

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2021

[Page 3 of 4]
G.O. No. 42, 2021
Page 3

Le,

H. Hogsett, Mayor

Approved and signed by me this <a day of December, 2021.

STATE OF INDIANA, MARION COUNTY)
) 8s:
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS )

|, SaRita Hughes, Clerk of the City-County Council, Indianapolis, Marion County, Indiana, do hereby certify the above and foregoing is a full, true, and complete copy of Proposal No. 357, 2021, a Proposal for a
GENERAL ORDINANCE passed by the City-County Council on the 6" day of December, 2021, by a vote of 22 YEAS,and 0 NAYS and was retitled General Ordinance No. 42, 2021, which was signed by the Mayor on the 4 day of December, 2021, and now remains on file and on record in my office.

WITNESS my hand and the official seal of the City of Indianapolis, indiana, this ran day of December, 2021.

SaRita Hughes
Clerk, City-County Council

(SEAL)

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2021

[Page 4 of 4]
Indianapolis City - County Council RCS# 423
2020-2023
2020-2023

12/6/2021 8:19 PM

Proposal: PROP21- 357 Ordinance: G.O. 42 (PASSED)
Sponsor: Adamson
Action: Adopt
Committee: Public Works

Yea: 22 Nay: 0 Abstain: 0 Not Voting: 0 Excused: 3

Yea - 22
Adamson Carlino Jones Mowery
Annee Dilk Larrison Oliver
Bain Evans-E Lewis Osili
Barth Graves Mascari Potts
Boots Gray McCormick Robinson
Brown Jackson

Nay - 0

Abstain - 0

Excused - 3
Evans-J Hart Ray

Excused - 0
