[Page 1 of 2]
CITY-COUNTY SPECIAL ORDINANCE NO. 21, 2023
Proposal No. 357, 2023

PROPOSAL FOR A SPECIAL ORDINANCE approving an interlocal cooperation agreement between the
Consolidated City of Indianapolis and Marion County, Indiana (“Indianapolis”) and Hendricks County, Indiana (‘Hendricks County”) for the construction and operation of improvements to County Line Road.

WHEREAS, I.C. § 8-17-1-45 provides that each county is responsible for the construction, reconstruction, maintenance, and operation of the roads, including the ditches and signs for those roads, making up its southern and eastern boundaries; and

WHEREAS, Raceway Road is the boundary road between Hendricks County and Marion County, and is Hendricks County’s eastern boundary; therefore, Hendricks County is responsible for the construction, reconstruction, maintenance, and operation of Raceway Road, including any bridge or culvert structure;
and

WHEREAS, Hendricks County has determined that County Bridge 39 on Raceway Road, located approximately 0.7 miles north of County Road 100 North (10th Street in Indianapolis) is needs fo be replaced and, therefore preparing plans and specifications for a capital improvement project to reconstruct
County Bridge 39 (the "Project”); and

WHEREAS, the Project will require Hendricks County to acquire right-of-way, to perform construction activities, and to operate and maintain the bridge within the borders of Indianapolis and Marion County; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to 1.C. § 36-1-3-9, Hendricks County may exercise ifs powers within the boundaries of Indianapolis pursuant only to an interlocal cooperation agreement approved by their respective fiscal bodies pursuant to I.C. § 36-1-7-2; and

WHEREAS, accordingly, Indianapolis and Hendricks County desire to enter into an interlocal cooperation agreement to allow Hendricks County to carry out the Project by acquiring right-of-way, performing construction activities, and operating and maintaining the bridge within the borders of indianapolis; and

WHEREAS, the City-County Council, having considered the matter and being duly advised, finds that
Raceway Road serves and affects the citizens of and the economic well-being of both Indianapolis and
Hendricks County, that the Project will improve safety and mobility, and that it will be of public utility and benefit to enter into an interlocal cooperation agreement with Hendricks County to carry out the Project, now, therefore:

BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA:

SECTION 1. The City-County Council hereby approves an authorizes the Department of Public Works to enter into an interiocal cooperation agreement with Hendricks County for purposes of authorizing the Hendricks
County to acquire right-of-way, to conduct construction activities, and to operate and maintain Hendricks
County Bridge 39 on Raceway Road as necessary for the completion and continuation of the bridge.

SECTION 2. The Director of the Department of Public Works is hereby authorized to finalize, execute, and deliver an appropriate interlocal cooperation agreement on behaif of the Consolidated City of Indianapolis and
Marion County upon approval of the form and substance of such agreement by the Corporation Counsel or their designee.

SECTION 3. This Special Ordinance shall be in full force and effect upon its passage by the City-County
Council and compliance with IC 36-3-4-14.

SPECAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2023

[Page 2 of 2]
$.0, No. 21, 2023
Page 2

The foregoing was passed by the City-County Council this 4" day of December, 2023, at 9:03 p.m.

ATTEST:

ity-County Council

F

Yulonda Winfield
Clerk, City-County Council

Presented by me to the Mayor this 6th day of December, 2023

Yulonda Winfield
Clerk, City-County Council

Mayor

HA
Approved and signed by me this A day of December, 2023.

fa

Jo

STATE OF INDIANA, MARION COUNTY)
) SS:
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS )

1, Yulonda Winfield, Clerk of the City-County Council, Indianapolis, Marion County, Indiana, do hereby certify the above and foregoing is a full, true, and complete copy of Proposal No. 357, 2023, a Proposal for a
SPECIAL ORDINANCE passed by the City-County Council on the 4" day of December, 2023, by a vote of 24 YEAS and,0 NAYS, and was retitled Special Ordinance No. 21, 2023, which was signed by the Mayor on the (pth. day of December, 2023, and now remains on file and on record in my office.

WITNESS my hand and the official seal of the City of Indianapolis, Indiana, this Whe say of December, 2023.

Yulonda Winfield
Clerk, City-County Council

(SEAL)

SPECAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2023
