[Page 1 of 3]
CITY-COUNTY SPECIAL RESOLUTION NO. 33, 2021
Proposal No. 360, 2024

A SPECIAL RESOLUTION honoring Norman Pace for his dedication and commitment to the residents of
Warren Township and the City of Indianapolis.

WHEREAS, Norman Pace was born in Indianapolis, IN, and has lived in Warren Township for over 50 years; and

WHEREAS, in 1990, Norman witnessed a group of concerned citizens lose their attempt to stop a rezoning. Realizing this loss was not due to lack of cause, but rather a lack of procedural knowledge,
Norman stepped forward and went to work. He attended meetings, watched proceedings, and learned to navigate the often-confusing waters of governmental protocol; and

WHEREAS, using his knowledge, Norman became founder and President of the Far Eastside
Neighborhood Association, FENA, which eventually reached membership of over 300. He earned the reputation of a “go-to” guy whose expertise and insight was routinely sought. Norman met with other neighborhood leaders, offering instruction and assistance in starting their own associations or with procedural questions; and

WHEREAS, Norman also served as President of Warren Township Development Association (WTDA), and as Land Use Chair with Marion County Alliance of Neighborhood Associations (MCANA), and volunteered to serve on numerous committees. Wearing his signature “Warren Pride” white hat, he traversed the city to meet with business owners, attorneys, neighborhood associations, developers, and concerned citizens to provide assistance in safeguarding the community; and

WHEREAS, Norman’s tasks were plentiful and diverse, from contacting Health and Hospital to force the relocation of a pig farm that had been unlawfully set-up in a residential area, to petitioning the Alcohol and Beverage Commission to deny a permit, which prevented the opening of an adult entertainment establishment. Notably, Norman was the driving force behind Proposal 250, which banned ail new billboard and electronic signage in Marion County, and was instrumental in establishing the Department of Code enforcement for the City of Indianapolis; and

WHEREAS, Norman also served as President of the Eastside Rotary, where he was proud to oversee many charitable contributions, including a grant to HOPE center, the purchase of shoes for 7th and 8th grade students, and multiple scholarship awards to Warren Central High School seniors; and

WHEREAS, Norman was key in helping to lead the opposition of the proliferation of billboards within the city limits, including digital billboards that many communities felt were tacky and distracted drivers that lead to safety issues. For this effort, former Mayor Bart Peterson put a moratorium on billboard installations, in order fo assess the issue and influence billboard companies and as a result, the Indianapolis City-County
Council passed a resolution supporting former Mayor Peterson’s decision; and

WHEREAS, he continued to be an advocate for his district by joining Ruth Anne Walker in establishing
Warren Pride Day, which is a day set aside for citizens and various organizations to do litter clean-up within
Warren Township and show pride in the Far Eastside; and

WHEREAS, in 2001, former Mayor Peterson presented Norman with a brick on the canal i of his service to the City; and

recogniti

WHEREAS, with the support of his wife, Mildred, Norman has dedicated more than 30 years to improving the quality of life for residents of his community; now, therefore:

BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA:

SECTION 1. The City-County Council recognizes Norman Pace for his dedication and commitment to the residents of Warren Township and the City of Indianapolis.

SECTION 2. The City-County Council acknowledges the many contributions, accomplishments, and hard work of Mr. Pace.

SECTION 3. The Mayor ts invited to join in this resolution by affixing his signature hereto.
SPECIAL RESOLUTION RECORD 2021

[Page 2 of 3]
S.R. No. 33, 2021
Page 2

SECTION 4. This resolution shall be in full force and effect upon adoption and compliance with IC 36-3-4- 14.
The foregoing was passed by the City-County Council this 8 day of November, 2021, at 7:27 p.m.

ATTEST:

ed 9 Vop Osi
Pb | Seagphas Presidga

SaRita Hughes
Clerk, City-County Council

ity-County Council

Presented by me to the Mayor this 9" day of November, 2021. ;
FRA ct

SaRita Hughes —
Clerk, City-County Council

ke
Approved and signed by me this 1G th day of November, 2027.
oO sept ‘ ef

Joseph H. Hogsett, Mayor

STATE OF INDIANA, MARION COUNTY)
) Ss:
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS )

|, SaRita Hughes, Cierk of the City-County Council, Indianapolis, Marion County, Indiana, do hereby certify the above and foregoing is a full, true, and complete copy of Proposal No. 360, 2021, a Proposal for a
SPECIAL RESOLUTION passed by the City-County Council on the 8! day of November, 2021, by a unanimous voice vote and was retitled Special Resolution No. 33, 2021, which was signed by the Mayor on the Li? Ah day of November, 2021, and now remains on file and on record in my office.

WITNESS my hand and the official seal of the City of Indianapolis, Indiana, this { (i day of November,

2021.
ESP ch Mug has
SaRita Hughes
Clerk, City-County Council
(SEAL)

SPECIAL RESOLUTION RECORD 2021

[Page 3 of 3]
Proposal: PROP21- 360
Sponsor: Jackson
Action: Adopt
Committee: Whole

Yea: 24

Yea - 24
Adamson
Annee
Bain
Barth
Boots
Brown

Nay -0

Abstain - 0

Excused - 1

Carlino

Excused - 0

Indianapolis City - County Council

2020-2023
2020-2023

11/8/2021 7:27 PM

Ordinance: S.R. 33

- VOTED BY UNANIMOUS CONSENT -

Nay: 0

Dilk
Evans-E
Evans-J
Graves
Gray
Hart

Abstain: 0

Not Voting: 0

Jackson
Jones
Larrison
Lewis
Mascari
McCormick

RCS# 336

(PASSED)

Excused: 1

Mowery
Oliver
Osili
Potts

Ray
Robinsen
