[Page 1 of 33]
CITY-COUNTY SPECIAL ORDINANCE NO. 1, 2025
Proposal No. 383, 2024

A SPECIAL ORDINANCE approving Payments in Lieu of Taxes (“PILOTS”) as provided in Indiana Code
Section § 36-3-2-12 (collectively, the “Act”) for an affordable housing project being financed in part with low- income housing tax credits pursuant to Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.

WHEREAS, the Act authorizes the legislative body of the City of Indianapolis (the “City”) to adopt an ordinance to require a property owner to pay PILOTS at times set forth in the ordinance with respect to real property that is subject to an exemption under Indiana Code § 6-1.1-10-16.7; and

WHEREAS, Indiana Code § 6-1.1-10-16.7 provides for a property tax exemption for a project where (1) the improvements on the real property were constructed, rehabilitated, or acquired for the purpose of providing housing to income eligible persons under the federal low income housing tax credit program under 26 U.S.C. § 42; (2) the real property is subject to an extended use agreement under 26 U.S.C. § 42 as administered by the Indiana housing and community development authority; and (3) the owner of the property has entered into an agreement to make payments in lieu of taxes under Indiana Code § 36-3-2- 12; and

WHEREAS, Rosedale Multifamily Partners, LP, an Indiana limited partnership (the “Owner’), has or will acquire certain real estate in Perry Township, Marion County, Indiana, located at 2139 East Hanna Avenue,
Indianapolis, Indiana, and identified as Marion County Parcel Number 5023202 (the “Real Estate”), and upon which Owner desires to renovate and expand an approximately one hundred thirty-two (132) unit affordable housing facility (collectively with the Real Estate, the “Project”), which Owner has represented will be owned and operated as an affordable housing facility pursuant to the federal low income housing tax credit program under 26 U.S.C. § 42 with an extended use agreement that is expected to continue for forty (40) years after completion of construction; and

WHEREAS, the City and Owner desire to approve the PILOTS to facilitate the Project and provide additional affordable housing in the City; and

WHEREAS, the terms and conditions of the PILOTS are contained in Exhibit A (the “PILOT
Agreement”), which include without limitation an annual payment of Thirty-Nine Thousand Six Hundred and
No/100 Dollars ($39,600.00) (the “Base Amount’), with the Base Amount increasing annually by two percent (2%) during the term of the PILOT Agreement (the "PILOT Payment”); and

WHEREAS, the City recognizes and agrees that in accordance with indiana Code § 36-3-2-12(f)(2), the percentage generated by dividing the annual PILOT Payment by the amount of the property taxes that would have been paid to the City if the Project was not subject to an exemption from property taxation shall be the percentage of the property taxes required to be paid by the Owner to the City on an annual basis during the term of the PILOT Agreement; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to and in accordance with the Act, the City desires to authorize and enter into the
PILOT Agreement; now, therefore:

BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA:

SECTION 1. The forgoing recitals are fully incorporated herein by this reference.

SECTION 2. It is hereby found that the acquisition of the Real Estate and construction of the Project will be of benefit to the health or general welfare of the City and its citizens and does comply with the purposes and provisions of the Act.

SECTION 3. The PILOT Agreement is hereby approved by the City, and the Owner shall make the annual
PILOT Payments in accordance with the terms of the PILOT Agreement, which is conditioned upon, among other requirements, the Owner receiving property tax exemption for the Project pursuant to Indiana Code
§ 6-1.1-10-16.7.

SPECIAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2025

[Page 2 of 33]
S.O. No. 1, 2025
Page 2

SECTION 4. In accordance with Indiana Code § 36-3-2-12(h), the PILOT Payments shall be deposited in the City’s housing trust fund established under Indiana Code § 36-7-15.1-35.5 and used for any purpose for which the housing trust fund may be used.

SECTION 5. In accordance with Indiana Code § 36-3-2-12(e), the Owner has consented to this Ordinance and the PILOT Payment, which shall be illustrated by the City’s Department of Metropolitan Development (“DMD”) and Owner executing the PILOT Agreement in substantially the same form of the attached, subject to necessary and appropriate updates and revisions agreed to by DMD and the Owner.

SECTION 6. DMD and the City Controller are authorized and directed to execute the PILOT Agreement approved herein after it has been finalized by DMD and the Owner, and DMD is further authorized to execute any other document which may be necessary or desirable to consummate the transaction, and
DMD’s execution is hereby confirmed on behalf of the City. The signature of the authorized signatory of
DMD and the City Controller on the PILOT Agreement may be facsimile signatures.

SECTION 7. By adopting this Ordinance, authorizing and directing DMD and the City Controller to finalize and execute the PILOT Agreement, and authorizing the PILOT Payments, the City has undertaken all required action contained within the Act.

SECTION 8. If any section, paragraph or provision of this Ordinance shall be held to be invalid or unenforceable for any reason, the invalidity or unenforceability of such section, paragraph or provision shall not affect any of the remaining provisions of this Ordinance.

SECTION 9. All ordinances, resolutions and orders or parts thereof, in conflict with the provisions of this
Ordinance are, to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.

SECTION 10. It is hereby determined that all formal actions of the Council relating to the adoption of this
Ordinance were taken in one or more open meetings of the Council, that all deliberations of the Council and of its committees, if any, which resulted in formal action, were in meetings open to the public, and that all such meetings were convened, held and conducted in compliance with applicable legal requirements, including Indiana Code 5-14-1.5 et seq., as amended.

SECTION 11. DMD and City Controller are authorized to take all such further actions or to execute, attest and deliver such further instruments and documents in the name of the City as in DMD’s and City
Controller's judgment shall be necessary or advisable in order to fully consummate the PILOT Agreement and Project and carry out the purposes of this Ordinance.

SECTION 12. This Ordinance shall be in full force and effect upon adoption and compliance with Indiana
Code § 36-3-4-14 and shall automatically terminate upon the termination of the PILOT Agreement.

The foregoing was passed by the City-County Council this 8" day of January, 2025, at 7:32 p.m.

ATTEST:

Vop Osili
S President, City-County Council

Yulonda Winfield
Clerk, City-County Council

Presented by me to the Mayor this 13! day of January, 2025.

Yulonda Winfield Y

Clerk, City-County Council

SPECIAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2025

[Page 3 of 33]
S.O. No. 1, 2025
Page 3

Approved and signed by me this 4h day of January, 2025. xfs,
éph H. Vogsatt, ayor '¢

STATE OF INDIANA, MARION COUNTY)
) ss:
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS )

|, Yulonda Winfield, Clerk of the City-County Council, Indianapolis, Marion County, Indiana, do hereby certify

the above and foregoing is a full, true, and complete copy of Proposal No. 383, 2024, a Proposal for a

SPECIAL ORDINANCE passed by the City-County Council on the 8! day of January, 2025, by a vote of 24

YEAS and 0 NAYS, and was retitled Special Ordinance No. 1, 2025, which was signed by the Mayor on the (4th day of January, 2025, and now remains on file and on record in my office.

WITNESS my hand and the official seal of the City of Indianapolis, Indiana, this yh day of January, 2025.

Yulonda Winfield Y

Clerk, City-County Council

(SEAL)

SPECIAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2025

[Page 4 of 33]
KD_15511493_2.docx
P
repared By and When Recorded 
Return to: 
Scott C. Frissell 
Krieg DeVault LLP 
12800 North Meridian Street, Suite 300 
Carmel, Indiana 46032-5407 
S
PACE ABOVE THIS LINE RESERVED FOR 
RECORDER’S USE ONLY 
PAYMENT IN LIEU OF TAXES AGREEMENT 
THIS PAYMENT IN LIEU OF TAXES AGREEMENT  (this “PILOT Agreement”) is  entered into as of this ___ day of ____________, 202_ (the “Effective Date”), by and among the 
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS, INDIANA, through its Department of Metropolitan Development  (the “City ”), and through the CITY CONTROLLER (the “ Controller”), and ROSEDALE 
MULTIFAMILY PARTNERS, LP, an Indiana limited partnership (the “Owner”). 
RECITALS 
WHEREAS, Owner ha s or will acquire c ertain real estate in Perry  Township, Marion 
County, Indiana, located at  2139 East Hanna Avenue , Indianapolis , Indiana, and identified as 
Marion County Parcel Number  5023202, which real estate is legally described on Exhibit A   attached to this PILOT Agreement (the “Real Estate”), and upon which Owner desires to renovate  and expand an approximately one hundred and thirty-two (132) unit affordable housing facility for  low income residents to be known as Rosedale Hills Apartments (the “Improvements” and together  with the Real Estate, the “Property”), which Owner has represented will be owned and operated  as an affordable housing facility pursuant to the federal low income housing tax credit program  under Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code ”), and the  applicable State of Indiana Qualified Allocation Plan; and 
WHEREAS, pursuant to Indiana Code (“ IC”) 6- 1.1-10-16.7, Owner will be exempt from  the requirement to pay property taxes on real property  included in the Property if the following  requirements are satisfied: (1) the improvements on the real property were constructed,  rehabilitated, or acquired for the purpose of providing housing to income eligible persons under  the federal low income housing tax credit program under 26 U.S.C. 42; (2) the real property is  subject to an extended use agreement under 26 U.S.C. 42 (the “Extended Use Agreement ”) as  administered by the Indiana Housing a nd Community Development Authority (“IHCDA”); and  (3) the owner of the property has entered into an agreement to make payments in lieu of taxes under IC 36-3-2-12 (the “PILOT Statute”); and

[Page 5 of 33]
2 
WHEREAS, Owner represents that the Property will be owned and operated as an  affordable housing development for the purpose of providing housing to income eligible persons  under the federal low income housing tax credit program under 26 U.S.C. 42 and the applicable 
State of Indiana Qualified Allocation Plan , and that the Property will be subject to an Extended 
Use Agreement as administered by IHCDA for a period of at least forty (40) years; and 
WHEREAS, this PILOT Agreement has been drafted to comply with the requirements  under the PILOT Statute; and 
WHEREAS, Owner represents that it will timely file its application (the “Property Tax 
Exemption Application”) with the Marion County Assessor requesting an exemption pursuant to 
IC 6-1.1-10-16.7 from its obligation to pay real property taxes and that it will timely file any  applications to renew any exemption if required by law to do so; and 
WHEREAS, Owner has ag reed (i) to make payments in lieu of taxes to the Marion County 
Treasurer; (ii) to enter into a Community Benefits Agreement (the “Community Benefits 
Agreement”) with the City; (iii) to cause to be provided to the residents of the Property social,  health and supportive services as set forth herein and in the Community Benefits Agreement (the  “Supportive Services”), all as more fully described in this PILOT Agreement; and (iv) to complete  at Owner’s expense, the commitments described in Section 4.2 hereof; and 
WHEREAS, the City, Controller and Owner have agreed that if all of the Property becomes  and remains fully exempt from the payment of property taxes under IC 6-1.1-10-16.7, Owner will  make payments to the Marion County Treasurer in lieu of the property taxes pursuant to the terms  of this PILOT Agreement; and 
WHEREAS, the City is authorized to enter into this PILOT Agreement pursuant to IC 36- 1-3-1 et seq., IC 6-1.1-10-16.7, IC 36-3-2-12; 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing premises, mutual covenants and  the sum of Ten and 00/100 Dollars ($10.00) and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt  and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereby agree as follows: 
AGREEMENT 
Section 1. Payments in Lieu of Taxes. 
Section 1.1. (a) Owner represents and warrant s that it has or will undertake all  appropriate action for the Property to be exempt under IC 6-1.1-10-16.7, and during the term of this 
PILOT Agreement, Owner covenants and agrees it shall at all times remain in compliance with the  requirements of IC 6-1.1-10-16.7 following the January 1, 2026 assessment, as applicable to Owner  and the Property and that it will not apply for or accept any partial exemption on the Property  under IC 6-1.1-10-16.7. 
(b) Owner agrees to maintain  the Property as an affordable housing facility in  accordance with Section 42 of the Code throughout the term of this PILOT Agreement serving  individuals with incomes not exceeding sixty (60%) of HUD’s Multifamily Tax Subsidy Projects  metropolitan area median income for Marion County, Indiana, with the applicable rental unit

[Page 6 of 33]
3 
breakdown shown on Exhibit B  (the “Unit Breakdown”). Beginning on March 1, 2027, and by 
March 1st of each calendar year thereafter, Owner shall submit to the City the Affordable Housing 
Compliance Report attached hereto as Exhibit C  (the “Compliance Report ”). If Owner fails to  submit the Compliance Report to the City by March 1 st of any calendar year, or if Owner fails to  maintain the Unit Breakdown, Owner shall pay the Supplemental Payment (as defined herein)  as  specified in Section 1.2 herein. 
(c) Owner acknowledges that this PILOT Agreement does not confer any property tax  exemption on the Property and that in order to obtain any such property tax exemption and qualify  for the PILOT Payment (as defined herein) , Owner must timely file its Property Tax Exemption 
Application, including renewal applications, if any are required, with the Marion County Assessor  requesting an exemption pursuant to IC 6-1.1-10-16.7. 
(d) Owner agrees to use its best efforts to (1) facilitate, effect or otherwise cause the  outcomes described in the Community Benefits Agreement between the parties hereto and of even  date herewith, and (2) implement and to encourage the residents of the Property to take advantage  of the Supportive Services. The City understands participation by the residents of the Property in  the Supportive Services is voluntary, however, Owner and the City agree that Owner has the ability  to encourage the residents to participate in and to take advantage of the Supportive Services. All  of the residents of the Property shall have access without restriction or charge to the provision of 
Supportive Services. Any and all services shall be provided on- site at the Property or easily  accessible to residents off-site. Owner does hereby covenant and agree to offer Supportive Services  which address the social, educational, recreational and/or general health and wellness needs of the  residents of the Property from one or more supportive service providers, as approved by the City  (the “Service Provider”). Any and all Supportive Services offered to the residents of the Property,  as well as the scope and efficacy of the Supportive Services, shall be assessed regularly by  experienced practitioners and/or staff regularly engaged in the provision of supportive s ervices. 
The foregoing assessment shall also include input from the residents of the Property. Any and all  staff or third-party Service Provider shall develop policies to establish, implement and assess the  delivery of the Supportive Services as required under this Section 1.1(d). The Supportive Services  plan shall be reviewed and updated every five (5) years (or sooner if necessary) by Owner with  the input and consent of the City, which consent shall not be unreasonably conditioned, delayed  or withheld. Copies of Owner’s initial plan (including copies of any agreements entered into with  a Service Provider) and updated plans for Supportive Services for the Property shall be filed with  the City, c/o the Director of the Department of Metropolitan Development or the appropriate  department thereof and must be approved by the City, which approval shall not be unreasonably  conditioned, delayed or withheld. Owner shall provide copies of any initial agreements with 
Service Providers before the Property is placed in service. Owner  covenants and agrees to report  on the type and scope of Supportive Services being offered by the Service Provider to the residents  of the Property on an annual basis on or before March 1
st of each year to the City, c/o the Director 
of the Department of Metropolitan Development or the appropriate department thereof. 
Section 1.2. Own er shall pay to the Marion County Treasurer at the Office of the Marion 
County Treasurer, an annual amount equal to Thirty-Nine Thousand Six Hundred and No/100 
Dollars ($39,600.00) (the “PILOT Payment”), which PILOT Payment shall increase at the rate of  two percent (2%) per year thereafter during the Payment Period (as defined herein) beginning with  the PILOT Payment year 2027 and continuing for thirty-nine (39) years thereafter (the “Payment

[Page 7 of 33]
4 
Period”) as reflected on the PILOT Payment schedule below. The PILOT Payment shall be paid in  lieu of property taxes for the tax year in question that would have been payable by Owner on the  assessed value of the Property if Owner was a non-exempt taxpayer. Moreover, the City and Owner  recognize and agree that in accordance with IC 36 -3-2-12(f)(2), that the percentage generated by  dividing the annual PILOT Payment by the amount of the property taxes that would have been paid  to the City if the Property was not subject to an exemption from property taxation shall be the  percentage of the property taxes required to be paid by Owner to the City on an annual basis during  the term of the PILOT Agreement. 
PILOT 
Year 
PILOT 
Payment 
Year 
PILOT 
Payment1 
PILOT 
Year 
PILOT 
Payment 
Year 
PILOT 
Payment1 
1 2026 $39,600 21 2046 $58,844 
2 2027 $40,392 22 2047 $60,020 
3 2028 $41,200 23 2048 $61,221 
4 2029 $42,024 24 2049 $62,445 
5 2030 $42,864 25 2050 $63,694 
6 2031 $43,722 26 2051 $64,968 
7 2032 $44,596 27 2052 $66,267 
8 2033 $45,488 28 2053 $67,593 
9 2034 $46,398 29 2054 $68,945 
10 2035 $47,326 30 2055 $70,323 
11 2036 $48,272 31 2056 $71,730 
12 2037 $49,238 32 2057 $73,165 
13 2038 $50,222 33 2058 $74,628 
14 2039 $51,227 34 2059 $76,120 
15 2040 $52,251 35 2060 $77,643 
16 2041 $53,296 36 2061 $79,196 
17 2042 $54,362 37 2062 $80,780 
18 2043 $55,450 38 2063 $82,395 
19 2044 $56,559 39 2064 $84,043 
20 2045 $57,670 40 2065 $85,724 
 
If Owner fails to satisfy the requirements of the Community Benefits Agreement  and/or 
Section 1.1(b), Section 4.2, or Section 4.3 herein (each a “Noncompliance Event”), Owner shall pay  to the Marion County Treasurer at the Office of the Marion County Treasurer (i) an additional ten  percent (10%) for the first year Noncompliance Event, (ii) an additional fifteen percent (15%) for  the second year Noncompliance Event, and (iii) an additional twenty-five percent (25%) for the third  year Noncompliance Event, of the property taxes that Owner would otherwise be required to pay on  the assessed value of the Property for the tax year in question if Owner was a non-exempt taxpayer  (the “Supplemental Payment”) no later than the next In Lieu of Payment (as defined in Section 1.3)  installment date after the Noncompliance Event occurs . The PILOT Payment and Supplemental 
Payment, if any, shall only become due if all the Property has received an exemption from property  tax under IC 6-1.1-10- 16.7. Notwithstanding the foregoing  and in accordance with IC 36-3-2-
 
1 Dollar amounts are rounded to nearest whole dollar.

[Page 8 of 33]
5 
12(f)(3), Owner shall not be required to pay any PILOT Payment and Supplemental Payment, if  any, which would exceed the amount of property taxes that would otherwise be owed on the  assessed value of the Property if Owner was a non-exempt taxpayer. 
Section 1.3. The PILOT Payment payable by Owner with respect to the Property shall  be payable in two equal installments due and payable on or before May 10th and November 10th of  each successive calendar year, commencing with the first semi-annual installment due and payable  on or before May 10, 2027 (each an “In Lieu of Payment”) and continuing through the Payment 
Period. All annual property taxes for the assessed value of the Property incurred for all periods  prior to the Payment Period shall be paid in full by Owner and Owner agrees that it will not file a 
Property Tax Exemption Application with the Marion County Assessor requesting an exemption  pursuant to IC 6-1.1-10-16.7 on the Property until the January 1, 2026 assessment (2026 pay 2027  taxes). Annually after April 1st, the City will compute each In Lieu of Payment and Supplemental 
Payment, if any, due for the year and will remit its calculations to the Marion County Treasurer at  the Office of the Marion County Treasurer. The Marion County Treasurer will thereafter provide  the Owner with an invoice for each In Lieu of Payment and Supplemental Payment, if any, owed  for the year on or before the May 10th installment due date. 
Section 1.4. Owner hereby reserves the right to contest and to appeal the amount of any  tax assessment of the Property. Any such challenge will not affect Owner’s obligation to make  timely payment of each In Lieu of Payment. 
Section 1.5. Owner shall be liable for prompt payment of each In Lieu of Payment when  due during the Payment Period. Owner shall be liable for all penalties, costs and expenses imposed  under IC 6-1.1-22-1 et seq. and IC 6-1.1-37-1 et seq. or any statute which amends or replaces them  for any delinquent In Lieu of Payment in accordance with the PILOT Statue. For the avoidance of  doubt, all amounts due under this PILOT Agreement shall be treated in the same manner as  property taxes for purposes of all procedural and substantive provisions of law. If unpaid, amounts  due under this PILOT Agreement shall otherwise accrue all penalties, interest, etc., applicable to  unpaid property taxes under Indiana law. 
Section 1.6. The Marion County Treasurer, upon receipt of each In Lieu of Payment   shall distribute the same to the housing trust fund established under IC 36-7-15.1-35.5(e) in  accordance with IC 36-3-2-12(h). 
Section 2. Security for In Lieu of Payments – Recording of PILOT Agreement. 
Section 2.1. This PILOT Agreement shall be recorded with the appropriate office in 
Marion County, Indiana to preserve and protect fully the rights of the City with respect to the 
Owner’s obligation to pay each In Lieu of Payment during the Payment Period and all subsequent  penalties, interest and costs resulting from any delinquency related thereto in accordance with the 
PILOT Statute. 
Section 3. Termination. 
Section 3.1. This PILOT Agreement shall automatically terminate, by no action of the  parties, and shall be of no force or effect between or among the parties upon the expiration of the 
Payment Period and the remittance of all In Lieu of Payments, plus any Supplemental Payments

[Page 9 of 33]
6 
due and payable pursuant to Section 1.2 hereof, if any, and any penalties, costs and any expense  pursuant to Section 1.5 hereof. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the City may in its sole discretion  elect to extend this PILOT Agreement prior to the expiration of the Payment Period. Furthermore,  this PILOT Agreement shall automatically terminate if the Property is not fully exempt under IC 6- 1.1-10-16.7 in any year of the Payment Period. 
Section 3.2. O wner’s obligation to pay the PILOT Payment and Supplemental 
Payments, if any, shall terminate upon Owner’s  conveyance of its title to the Property, and  this 
PILOT Agreement shall become null and void and of no further force or effect; provided, however, 
Owner shall remain obligated for payment of the applicable pro rata amount of the PILOT 
Payment, Supplemental Payments, if any, and any penalties, costs and any expense pursuant to 
Section 1.5 hereof with respect to the Property up to the date of conveyance  of the Property. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, Owner may assign its obligations under this PILOT Agreement in  accordance with Section 4.15 herein. 
Section 3.3. In the event the City determines that Owner has failed to satisfy the  requirements of the Community Benefits Agreement, or Section 1.1, Section 4.2, and/or Section 4.3  herein, or if Owner has materially breached the requirements of Section 4.1 herein (a “Material 
Breach”), the City shall notify Owner in writing of such default. Owner shall have thirty (30) days  from the effective date of the notice to cure the reason for default (the “Cure Period”). The City may  in its sole discretion elect to extend the Cure Period.  Following the Cure Period, this PILOT 
Agreement shall automatically terminate upon written notice from the City to the Owner that such  default or Material Breach has not been cured within the Cure Period.  
Notwithstanding the forgoing, the City acknowledges that the Owner’s failure to satisfy  t
he Twenty-Five percent (25%) resident participation for the Supportive Services (as set forth in 
Section 1 of the Community Benefits Agreement) is not in itself an event of default as long as the 
Owner has: (1) taken all reasonable efforts to encourage resident participation in the Supportive 
Services; (2) timely filed all Supportive Services Reports (as defined in the Community Benefits 
Agreement), (3) timely filed its  Supportive Services plan (as required by Section 1.1(d)  herein),  and (4) if requested by the City, worked with the City to determine what modifications should be  made to the Supportive Services offered and/or whether any Service Provider  should be replaced  or an additional Service Provider should be added in an effort to increase future participation as  provided in Section 1 of the Community Benefits Agreement. 
Section 3.4. The parties hereto may mutually agree to terminate this PILOT Agreement. 
Such termination agreement shall be in writing and executed by all parties hereto. 
Section 3.5. Upon termination of this PILOT Agreement  pursuant to Section 3.3 or 
Section 3.4 herein, the parties hereto agree to the following:  (a) Owner shall pay the applicable pro rata amount the PILOT Payment for the year in  which such termination occurs up to the date of termination, plus any Supplemental Payments due  and payable pursuant to Section 1.2 hereof, if any, and any penalties, costs and any expense  pursuant to Section 1.5 hereof. 
(b) Until such time as the Property is otherwise appropriately assessed for purposes of  property taxes, Owner shall pay to the Marion County Treasurer at the Office of the Marion County

[Page 10 of 33]
7 
Treasurer the property taxes for the Property accruing from and after the termination date that  would otherwise be owed for the Property for the applicable tax year if the Property did not qualify  for a property tax exemption pursuant to IC 6-1.1-10-16.7.  (c) Upon termination of this PILOT Agreement, all other provisions of this PILOT 
Agreement, except for this Section 3.5, shall become null and void, and of no further force or effect  between the parties. 
Section 4. G eneral Provisions. 
Section 4.1. Compliance with Landlord/Tenant Ordinances . Owner shall comply  with Chapter 582 “Protection of Tenant’s Rights” and Chapter 851 “Indianapolis Landlord 
Registration Program” of the Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County of Indianapolis  (the “Revised Code”). Specifically, but without prejudice to Owner’s other obligations under those  provisions, Owner shall: 
(a) Comply with Section 582- 103 of the Revised Code, notwithstanding that  provision’s preemption as a freestanding requirement by IC 32-31-1-20, by providing all tenants,  no later than ten (10) days after the commencement of tenancy or lease renewal, as applicable, a 
Notice of Tenant’s Rights and Responsibilities that conforms to the authorized text published by  the Office of Public Health and Safety. Owner shall also comply with the requirements of Section  582-103 of the Revised Code with respect to record-keeping. Owner’s failure to comply with 
Section 582-103 of the Revised Code as to any tenant shall constitute a Material Breach of this 
PILOT Agreement unless cured within the Cure Period. 
(b) Refrain from any acts of retaliation against a tenant as prohibited by Section 582- 105 of the Revised Code. The entry of any judgment in which Owner is held liable for a violation  of Section 582 -105 of the Revised Code by a court of competent jurisdiction shall constitute a 
Material Breach of this PILOT Agreement. 
(c) Comply with the requirements of the landlord and owner registration program as  set forth in Section 851-104 of the Revised Code, notwithstanding that provision’s preemption as  a freestanding requirement by IC 32-31-8.5-6. The entry of any judgment in which Owner is held  liable for a violation of Section 851-104 of the Revised Code by a court of competent jurisdiction,  or Owner’s admission of violation and payment of a civil penalty for violation of Section 851-104  of the Revised Code, shall constitute a Material Breach of this PILOT Agreement.  (d) Comply with all provisions of the Revised Code relating to the maintenance of the 
Property, including, but not limited to, Chapters 361 (Litter) and 391 (Nuisances). Owner’s failure  to comply with the maintenance requirements under the Revised Code followi ng its receipt of  written notice of noncompliance from the City shall constitute a Material Breach of this PILOT 
Agreement unless cured within the Cure Period. 
Section 4.2. Owner Commitments. In connection with the use and development of the 
Property, Owner shall comply with the commitments it made to the City, including, but not limited  to, (i)  causing at least $ 25,000,000 to be spent  developing the Property, (ii) installing, at the 
Owner’s expense, the sidewalk and internal pathway improvements depicted in the Sidewalk Plans  attached hereto and incorporated herein as Exhibit D, and (iii) develop the Property in accordance

[Page 11 of 33]
8 
with the final approved site plans and improvements as approved by the City, which plans and  improvements are attached hereto and incorporated herein as Exhibit E (collectively, the  “Commitments”). Owner agrees to complete the Commitments no later than December 31, 2026. 
Owner’s failure to complete the Commitments by December 31, 2026 shall be deemed a 
Noncompliance Event and Owner shall be required to pay the Supplemental Payment as provided  in Section 1.2 hereof on May 10, 2027. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the City may determine,  in its sole discretion, to waive the Supplemental Payment for this  Noncompliance Event if the 
Owner sufficiently demonstrates substantial progress towards completing the Commitments. 
Section 4.3. R educing the Impact of Eviction. Owner represents that it has committed  to implement strategies that reduce the impact of eviction on low-income households by subjecting  itself to the Reducing the Impact of Eviction requirements contained in the State of Indiana 2023- 2024 Qualified Allocation Plan (the “ Eviction Commitments ”). In the event, the City request  information relating to Owner’s compliance with the Eviction Commitments, Owner shall provide  the City with adequate written information responsive to the City’s request within ten (10) business  days thereof. 
Section 4.4. C
 aptions; Incorporation and Exhibit . The captions and headings of  various Articles, Sections and Exhibit referenced herein are for convenience only and are not to  be considered as defining or limiting in any way, the scope or intent of the provisions hereof. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, eac h of the Recitals and the Exhibit referenced herein are  incorporated and expressly made a part hereof. 
Section 4.5. E
 ntire PILOT Agreement. This PILOT Agreement constitutes the entire  agreement of the parties, and all prior discussions, negotiations and document drafts are merged  herein. 
Section 4.6. N
 otices. Any notice, demand, request or other communication which any  party hereto may be required or may desire to give hereunder shall be in writing, addressed as  follows and shall be deemed to have been properly given if hand delivered (effective upon  delivery), if sent by reputable overnight courier, charges prepaid (effective the business day  following delivery to such courier) or if mailed by United States registered or certified mail,  postage prepaid, return receipt requested (effective two business days after mailing): 
If to Owner: Rosedale Multifamily Partners, LP 
6219 Guilford Avenue 
Indianapolis, IN 46220 
Attention: Jarod Brown  
 
If to City: City of Indianapolis, Indiana 
200 East Washington Street 
Indianapolis, Indiana 46204 
Attn:  Office of Corporation Counsel

[Page 12 of 33]
9 
If to Controller: City of Indianapolis, Indiana 
200 East Washington Street 
Indianapolis, Indiana 46204 
Attn:  City Controller 
 
If to Director of Department 
of Metropolitan Development: 
City of Indianapolis, Indiana 
Department of Metropolitan Development 
200 East Washington Street 
Indianapolis, Indiana  46204 
Attn:  Director 
 
or at such other address as the party to be served with notice may have furnished in writing to the  party seeking or desiring to serve notice as a place for the service of notice. Notices given in any  other manner shall be deemed effective only upon receipt. 
Section 4.7. Modification, Amendment or Waiver . No modification, waiver,  amendment, discharge or change of this PILOT Agreement shall be valid unless the same is in  writing and signed by all parties to this PILOT Agreement. 
Section 4.8. G overning Law . This PILOT Agreement shall be governed by and  construed under the laws of the State of Indiana, without giving effect to any conflict -of-law  principle that would result in the laws of any other jurisdiction governing this PILOT Agreement. 
Any action or proceeding arising out of this PILOT Agreement will be litigated in the courts  located in Marion County, Indiana. Each party consents and submits to the jurisdiction of any  local, state, or federal court located in Marion County, Indiana. 
Section 4.9. T
 ime is of the Essence. Time is hereby declared to be of the essence of this 
PILOT Agreement and of every part hereof. 
Section 4.10. C ounterparts. This PILOT Agreement and any amendments hereof may  be executed in one or more counterparts, each of which when so executed and delivered shall be  deemed to be an original, and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same  instrument, notwithstanding that all the parties have not signed the original or the same  counterpart. Any counterpart hereof signed by the party against whom enforcement of this PILOT 
Agreement is sought shall be admissible into evidence as an original hereof to prove the contents  hereof. 
Section 4.11. S
 everability. If any provision of this PILOT Agreement is determined by a  court having jurisdiction to be illegal, invalid or unenforceable under any present or future law,  the remainder of this PILOT Agreement will not be affected thereby. It is the intention of the  parties that if any provision is so held to be illegal, invalid or unenforceable, there will be added  in lieu thereof a provision as similar in terms to such provision as is possible that i s legal, valid  and enforceable. 
Section 4.12. N
 o Joint Venture . Nothing contained in this PILOT Agreement will be  construed to constitute any party as a joint venturer with the City or to constitute a partnership  between any party and the City.

[Page 13 of 33]
10 
Section 4.13. Construction. The parties acknowledge that each party and each party’s  counsel have reviewed and revised this PILOT Agreement and that the normal rule of construction  to the effect that any ambiguities are to be resolved against the drafting party will not be employed  in the interpretation of this PILOT Agreement or any amendments or exhibits hereto. 
Section 4.14. A
 uthorization. The persons executing and delivering this PILOT 
Agreement on behalf of the parties hereto represent and warrant to the other party that such person  is duly authorized to act for and on behalf of said party, and execute and deliver this PILOT 
Agreement in such capacity as is indicated below. 
Section 4.15. A
 ssignment. The rights and obligations contained in this PILOT 
Agreement may not be assigned by Owner without the express prior written consent of the City  and Controller, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed;  provided, however, that such assignment shall only be allowed to an assignee which would  otherwise be entitled to claim an exemption for real property taxes imposed on th e Property as  required by this PILOT Agreement.  
Section 4.16. R
 ecording. The City will cause, at Owner ’s expense, this PILOT 
Agreement and any other instruments of further assurance to be promptly recorded, filed and  registered, and at all times to be recorded, filed and registered, in such manner and in such places  as may be required by law to preserve and protect fully the rights of the City hereunder. 
[Remainder of this page intentionally left blank]

[Page 14 of 33]
11 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF , the undersigned parties have caused the execution of this 
PILOT Agreement by their duly authorized officers as of the Effective Date. 
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS, INDIANA 
DEPARTMENT OF METROPOLITAN  
DEVELOPMENT 
By:    
Megan Vukusich, Director 
 
 
STATE OF INDIANA ) 
) SS: 
COUNTY OF MARION ) 
Before me, a Notary Public, in and for said County and State, personally appeared Megan 
Vukusich in her capacity as the Director of the Department of Metropolitan Development, acting  for and behalf of the City of Indianapolis, Indiana, who acknowledged the execution of the  foregoing instrument as such Director acting for and on behalf of said Department of Metropolitan 
Development and who, having been duly sworn, stated that any and all representations and  warranties contained therein are true and correct in all material respects. 
Witness my hand and Notarial Seal this ____ day of ______________, 202__. 
 
  
Notary Public 
 
 
  
Printed Signature 
 
 
My Commission Expires: My County of Residence: 
 
    
 
 
[Executions Continued on Following Page]

[Page 15 of 33]
12 
CITY CONTROLLER 
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS, INDIANA 
By:    
Abigail Hanson, City Controller 
STATE OF INDIANA ) 
) SS: 
COUNTY OF MARION ) 
Before me, a Notary Public, in and for said County and State, personally appeared Abigail 
Hanson in her capacity as the City Controller, who acknowledged the execution of the foregoing  instrument as such City Controller acting for and on behalf of  said City of Indianapolis, Indiana,  and who, having been duly sworn, stated that any and all representations and warranties contained  therein are true and correct in all material respects. 
Witness my hand and Notarial Seal this ____ day of _____________, 202__. 
 
  
Notary Public 
 
 
  
Printed Signature 
 
 
My Commission Expires: My County of Residence: 
 
    
 
 
[Executions Continued on Following Page]

[Page 16 of 33]
13 
 ROSEDALE MULTIFAMILY PARTNERS, LP, 
an Indiana limited partnership 
By:  Rosedale Multifamily Partners GP, LLC 
an Indiana limited liability company, 
its General Partner 
By:    
Jarod Brown, Manager 
 
STATE OF INDIANA ) 
) SS: 
COUNTY OF _____________ ) 
Before me, a Notary Public, in and for said County and State, personally Jarod Brown in  his capacity as the Manager of Rosedale Multifamily Partners GP , an Indiana limited liability  company, the General Partner of Rosedale Multifamily Partners, LP, an Indiana limited  partnership, who acknowledged the execution of the foregoing instrument as such Manager acting  for and on behalf of said limited liability  company and limited partnership and who, having been  duly sworn, stated that any and all representations and warranties contained therein are true and  correct in all material respects. 
Witness my hand and Notarial Seal this ____ day of ______________, 202__. 
 
  
Notary Public 
 
 
(SEAL)   
Printed Signature 
 
 
My Commission Expires: My County of Residence:

[Page 17 of 33]
14 
APPROVED FOR LEGAL FORM AND 
ADEQUACY, OFFICE OF CORPORATION 
COUNSEL 
By:    
Name:    
Title:    
Prepared by and return after recording to: 
Scott C. Frissell 
Krieg DeVault LLP 
12800 North Meridian Street, Suite 300 
Carmel, Indiana 46032 
Phone: (317) 238-6246 
I affirm, under penalties for perjury, that I have taken reasonable care to redact each Social Security 
Number in this document, unless required by law.   Scott C. Frissell

[Page 18 of 33]
A-1 
EXHIBIT A 
Legal Description 
The Land referred to herein below is situated in the County of Marion, State of Indiana, and is  described as follows:

[Page 19 of 33]
B-1 
EXHIBIT B 
Unit Breakdown 
Bedrooms Unit Count AMI* 
1 38 units 50% 
2 18 units 50% 
3 4 units 50% 
1 18 units 60% 
2 30 Units 60% 
3 24 units 60% 
 132 Total Units  
 
* HUD’s Multifamily Tax Subsidy Projects metropolitan area median income for Marion County, 
Indiana.

[Page 20 of 33]
DMDXNDY

Affordable Housing Compliance Report

Please submit report to the Compliance Manager for DMD, at
EconomicDevelopment@Indy.Gov

Project Address:
Annual Report Year:

Total Project Overview

ee ee Ce ZT
a
a
ovo
a EZ

Total Affordable Units Loe fe [|

[Page 21 of 33]
Affordable Housing Compliance Report (continued)
Add odditiona! lines az needed. The information below should motch rent rolls submitted.

‘Unit ® Number of
(eddress if seperate | Individuals in
from abo Fi
SS ee
ee
ee

a ES es

“There may be dizcrepances im Man INCOMed SIOWEE SAG BctUa! EOE. Pleaze Note theze im the table below

[Page 22 of 33]
[oar Tae

[oar [Eaton
Frac

[reecroom
[eeedroom
[bedroom

“Gaver CAR as He Gwe Comaped wth the TOWING oveTAE
‘over the fst 12 month period

1 The owner has recerifed household eighty in accordance with the

 veccation requirements fornia cerfication, with sporting documentation

{or each low-income household. This incides ceriving bth income egibity
‘and student ebiy

Each Afordable Unitin the project fas Bean ren estiied as required by tel
Declaration of Covenants

[S-Wo ang oF Srion onder the Fa ousng AE TEUSE SOT SEES, has occured for this projec. icing of cscrimination includes an adverse inal decision bythe Secretary of Housing and urban Development (HUD), 28 CFR 15.660, an averse final decison bya substantially equivalent state or local a housing agency, 42 S.C 3626a(a.1), or an adversejudgment from federal,

“an afordable Unit inthe project hasbeen vacant during the yea, reasonable attempts were orate being made torent tat affordable Unit

5. the annal income of household in an affordable Uni inthe project increased above the mit alowed inthis Compliance Manual either a) anther nit of comparable size inthe same bulking has replaced the overncome household's unt a an affordable Unt or) the fordable Unit continues to be rented atthe affordable ent, and willbe unt the next available unt of comparable sz inthe same bung rented toa quai iowincome
household a the afordable rent [thereby aking the pace of the averncome household sun a an fordable Uni

[ornare ERTS a STE UT TOY
on their satus 2 holder of a secon & Housing Choice Voucher or other rental

lease attach any ational information as necessary to document compliance such 25 job numbers, at installations et.

[Page 23 of 33]
D-1 
EXHIBIT D 
Sidewalk Plans 
(Attach)

[Page 24 of 33]
E-1 
EXHIBIT E 
Commitments 
(Attach final Site Plan and Elevations)

[Page 25 of 33]
KD_15511492_3.docx 
COMMUNITY BENEFITS AGREEMENT 
THIS COMMUNITY BENEFITS AGREEMENT (this “ Agreement”) is made and  entered into as of this ___ day of _________, 202_ (the “ Effective Date”), by and between  
ROSEDALE MULTIFAMILY PARTNERS , LP, an Indiana  limited partnership (the “Owner”),  and the CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS, INDIANA, through its Department of Metropolitan 
Development (the “City”). 
RECITALS 
WHEREAS, the City has agreed to support the  development of the project  commonly  known as Rosedale Hill Apartments located at 2139 East Hanna Avenue, Indianapolis, Indiana ,  and identified as Marion County Parcel Number 5023202 (the “Property”); and 
WHEREAS, in order to support the development of the Property, the City, Controller of  the City of Indianapolis, and Owner entered into a Payment in Lieu of Taxes Agreement (the  “PILOT Agreement”), effective as of the Effective Date, which PILOT Agreement sets  forth the  terms (of incentive) for the development of the Property (the “PILOT”), a copy of which is attached  hereto and incorporated herein as Exhibit A; and 
WHEREAS, the PILOT Agreement provides that in order to access the PILOT, the parties  are required to enter into a Community Benefits Agreement; and 
WHEREAS, Owner has agreed to provide or engage with one or more service providers,  or a substitute service provider with the written approval of the City ( each a “Service Provider ”  and collectively, the “Service Providers”), to provide a minimum level of Supportive Services (as  hereinafter defined) to the residents of the Property, all as more fully described in this Agreement;  and 
WHEREAS, in order to satisfy this requirement of the PILOT  Agreement, Owner agrees  to support the Service Providers as more fully described in this Agreement; 
NOW, THEREFORE , in consideration of the foregoing premises and other good and  valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties  hereby agree as follows: 
AGREEMENT 
Section 1. Supportive Services . Owner agrees to provide or cause  one or more 
Service Provider to provide the Supportive Services for the residents of the Property as specified  in the Supportive Services list attached hereto as Exhibit B  (the “Supportive Services”). Owner  will make all reasonable efforts to encourage resident participation in the Supportive Services,  including, but not limited to, advertising, handouts, move-in packets, and verbal communication of  the Supportive Services available to the residents of the Property. 
In accordance with Section 2  he
 rein, Owner shall annually certify to the City whether or  not at least twenty-five percent (25%) of the unique residents of the Property (i.e., the total number  of residents who attend services without duplicating the residents of the Property) have taken

[Page 26 of 33]
2 
advantage of or benefitted from the Supportive Services during the immediately preceding  calendar year (the “Supportive Services Report ”). Owner shall complete the Supportive Services 
Report attached hereto as Exhibit C annually as set forth below. On an annual basis, the City shall  review the Supportive Services Report and determine, in its reasonable judgment, whether the 
Supportive Services provided are reasonable and beneficial to the residents of the Property.  
If O
wner fails to submit the Supportive Services Report to the City by March 1 st of any  calendar year, or if less than twenty-five percent ( 25%) of the residents of the P roperty take  advantage of or benefit from the Supportive Services for the calendar year immediately preceding  the current year (collectively, a “Noncompliance Event”), Owner shall pay the additional payment  as specified in Section 1.2 of the PILOT Agreement  (the “Supplemental Payment”). Owner shall  pay the Supplemental Payment in full by May 10 th in the calendar year in which the 
Noncompliance Event occurs (the “Supplemental Payment Date”). 
Owner may request a credit for the Supplemental Payment by filing a written request with  the City, c/o the Director of the Department of Metropolitan Development or the appropriate  department thereof, within thirty (30) days of the Supplemental Payment Date (the “Credit  
Request”). Following the City’s receipt of the Credit Request, or at any time the City determines,  in its reasonable judgment, that the Supportive Services offered are not reasonable and beneficial  to the residents of the Property, Owner, and the City shall work together to determine what  modifications should be made to the Supportive Services offered and/or whether any Service  
Provider should be replaced or additional Service Providers should be added in an effort to increase  future participation. Based on such meetings or any other communications and/or documentation  the City receives from the Owner with the filing of the Credit Request, the City may determine, in  its sole discretion, to waive the Noncompliance Event and provide the Owner with a credit against  future PILOT payments for all or part of the Supplemental Payment. 
Notwithstanding the forgoing, the City acknowledges that the Owner’s failure to satisfy  the twenty-five percent (25%) resident participation for the Supportive Services is not in itself an  event of default as long as the Owner has: (1) taken all reasonable efforts to encourage resident  participation in the Supportive Services; (2) timely filed all Supportive Services Reports, (3) timely  filed its updated Supportive Services plans (as required by Section 1.1(d) of the PILOT 
Agreement), and ( 4) if requested by the City, worked with the City to determine what  modifications should be made to the Supportive Services offered and/or whether any Service 
Provider should be replaced or additional Service Providers should be added in an effort to increase  future participation. 
Section 2. Annual Reporting . During the term of this Agreement , Owner shall  annually submit to the City the Supportive Services Report, and any other reports the City requests  relating to this Agreement and the Supportive Services, which shall indicate compliance with this 
Agreement, no later than March 1, 2027, and on March 1
st of each calendar year thereafter. In the 
event the City requests additional information from the Owner concerning its compliance with the  commitments set forth herein , Owner shall provide the City with adequate written information  responsive to the City’s request within ten (10) business days thereof.  
Section 3. D efault. In the event the City determines that the Owner has failed to satisfy  the requirements of this Agreement, the City shall notify the Owner in writing of such default.

[Page 27 of 33]
3 
Owner shall have ten (10) days from the effective date of the notice to cure the reason for default   (the “Cure Period”). The City may in its sole discretion elect to extend the Cure Period. Following  the Cure Period, this Agreement shall automatically terminate upon written notice from the City  to the Owner that such default has not been cured within the Cure Period. 
Section 4. T ermination of Agreement. Upon termination of the PILOT Agreement ,  or termination of this Agreement in accordance with Section 3, this Agreement shall automatically  terminate and be of no further force and effect. 
Section 5. C onditions Precedent. The parties hereto expressly acknowledge that this 
Agreement and the commitments set forth herein are subject to and predicated upon the final  approval and execution of the PILOT Agreement. 
Section 6. Mi
 scellaneous. 
Section 6.1 Entire Agreement. This Agreement, including any exhibits hereto,  contains the entire Agreement by and between the parties hereto concerning the matters set  forth herein and supersedes any prior understanding or agreements between the parties  hereto. This Agreement may not be amended or modified except in writing by the  parties  hereto. 
Section 6.2 Wai
 ver. No delay or failure by the parties to exercise any right  hereunder, and no partial or single exercise of any such right , shall constitute a waiver of  that or any other right, unless otherwise expressly provided herein. 
Section 6.3 H eadings. The subject headings contained in this Agreement are for  reference purposes only and do not in any way affect the meaning or interpretation hereof. 
Section 6.4 N otices. Any notice , demand, request or other communication  which any party hereto may be required or may desire to give hereunder shall be in writing,  addressed as follows and shall be deemed to have been properly given if hand delivered  (effective upon delivery), if sent by reputable overnight courier, charges prepaid (effective  the business day following delivery to such courier) or if mailed by United States registered  or certified mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested (effective two business days  after mailing): 
If to Owner: Rosedale Multifamily Partners, LP 
C6219 Guilford Avenue 
Indianapolis, IN 46220 
Attention: Jarod Brown 
 
If to City: City of Indianapolis, Indiana 
Department of Metropolitan Development 
200 East Washington Street 
Indianapolis, IN 46204 
Attention: Director

[Page 28 of 33]
4 
or at such other address as the party to be served with notice may have furnished in writing  to the party seeking or desiring to serve notice as a place for the service of notice. Notices  given in any other manner shall be deemed effective only upon receipt. 
Section 6.5 Counterparts. This Agreement and any amendments hereof may be  executed in one or more counterparts, each of which when so executed and delivered shall  be deemed to be an original, and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the  same instrument, notwithstanding that all the parties have not signed the original  or the  same counterpart. Any counterpart hereof signed by the party against whom enforcement  of this Agreement is sought shall be admissible into evidence as an original hereof to prove  the contents hereof. 
Section 6.6 S
 everability. If any provision of this Agreement is determined by a  court having jurisdiction to be illegal, invalid or unenforceable under any present or future  law, the remainder of this Agreement will not be affected thereby. It is the intention of the  parties that if any provision is so held to be illegal, invalid or unenforceable, there will be  added in lieu thereof a provision as similar in terms to such provision as is possible that is  legal, valid and enforceable. 
Section 6.7 N
 o Joint Venture . Nothing contained in this Agreement will be  construed to constitute any party as a joint venturer with the City or to constitute a  partnership between any party and the City. 
Section 6.8 C onstruction. The parties acknowledge that each party and each  party’s counsel have reviewed and revised this Agreement and that the normal rule of  construction to the effect that any ambiguities are to be resolved against the drafting party  will not be employed in the interpretation of this Agreement or any amendments or exhibits  hereto. 
Section 6.9 A
 uthorization. The persons executing and delivering this 
Agreement on behalf of the parties hereto represent and warrant to the other party that such  person is duly authorized to act for and on behalf of said party, and execute and deliver this 
Agreement in such capacity as is indicated below. 
Section 6.10 G
 overning Law. This Agreement is governed by the laws of the 
State of Indiana, without giving effect to any conflict-of-law principle that would result in  the laws of any other jurisdiction governing this Agreement. Any action or proceeding  arising out of this Agreement will be litigated in the courts located in Marion County, 
Indiana. Each party consents and submits to the jurisdiction of any local , state, or federal  court located in Marion County, Indiana. 
Section 6.11 A
 ssignment. T he rights and obligations contained in this 
Agreement may not be assigned by Owner without the express prior written consent of the 
City, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed; provided,  however, that such assignment shall only be allowed to an assignee which would otherwise  be entitled to claim an exemption for real property taxes imposed on the Property as  required by this PILOT Agreement.

[Page 29 of 33]
5 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF , the parties hereto have caused this Community Benefits 
Agreement to be duly executed as of the Effective Date. 
OWNER: ROSEDALE MULTIFAMILY PARTNERS, LP, 
an Indiana limited partnership 
By:  Rosedale Multifamily Partners GP, LLC 
an Indiana limited liability company, 
its General Partner 
By:   
Jarod Brown, Manager 
THE CITY: CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS , DEPARTMENT OF 
METROPOLITAN DEVELOPMENT 
By:    
Megan Vukusich, Director 
APPROVED FOR LEGAL FORM AND 
ADEQUACY, OFFICE OF CORPORATION 
COUNSEL 
By:    
Name:    
Title:

[Page 30 of 33]
EXHIBIT A 
PILOT AGREEMENT 
(To be attached)

[Page 31 of 33]
B-1 
EXHIBIT B 
SUPPORTIVE SERVICES 
The following is a summary of the minimum Supportive Services Owner has committed to provide  or engage Service Providers to provide to the residents of the Property: 
 
1. Level One Services – Tenant Incentives:* 
a. Information & Referrals 
b. Special Events (including social events) 
c. Free wireless internet will be provided throughout the Property free of charge. 
 
2. Level Two Services – Targeted Efforts to Address Tenant Needs and Tools to Increase 
Self-Sufficiency and Quality of Life:** 
a. Medical Delivery Services will be provided on-site twice per month (1st and 15th of  each month) where tenant’s prescribed medications will be delivered to the 
Property. 
b. Access to University of Indianapolis Daycare Services will be available off- site at  the University’s facilities during regular business hours.  c. INHP Successful Renting Program will be available quarterly on- site to provide  residents with the resources they need in transitioning to home ownership. This  service will be provided at no cost to the residents of the Property.  d. MBI Financial Literacy Courses will be provided quarterly on- site by Merchants 
Bank of Indiana to teach residents about personal finances and setting “SMART”  goals, which are both achievable and measurable.  This service will be provided at  no cost to the residents of the Property. 
e. University of Indianapolis: Career & College Preparation services will be provided  monthly on- site to empower residents to better their careers and lives.  These  services will be provided at no cost to the residents of the Property. 
 
* Level One Services shall not be included for calculating the resident participation percentages  in the Supportive Services Report for purposes of Section 2 of this Agreement.
 
** Owner intends to finalize its agreements with the Service Providers before the Property is  placed in service. In accordance with Section 1.1(d) of the PILOT Agreement, Owner shall provide  the City with copies of its agreements with the Service Providers before the Property is placed in  service.

[Page 32 of 33]
Developer ogo
INDIANAPOLIS.
memeretasnencravs _evhibit X/Annual Residential Participation Report
Company Name
Project Name/Address
Reporting Period
Date Submitted to DMD:
January [February [March [April [May [lune [July [August [September [October [November [December [Total

IMethod af Outreach

[Program Name
Provide Serie Provider ad description on separate pagel

INumber of Attendees

[Program Name
Provide Serie Provider and description on separate pagel

INumber of Attendees

[Program Name
Provide Serie Provider ad description on separate pagel

INumber of Attendees

[Program Name
Provide Serie Provider and description on separate pagel

INumber of Attendees

[Program Name
Provide Serie Provider ad description on separate pagel

INumber of Attendees

[Program Name
Provide Serie Provider ad description on separate pagel

INumber of Attendees

[Program Name
Provide Serie Provider and description on separate pagel

INumber of Attendees

INumber of Residences

[Percentage

"*Please attach any iyers, newsletters, sigh-in-sheets, and any ather relevant information,
**Developer/Managing group may also turn ina description/overview of how the overall program is working atthe Project Site, andif any changes to the program are going to take place
**Please attach the HUD Semi-Annual Performance Report for Multifamily Housing Serie Coordinator Program to this document.

{attest this information is
true and accurate
Company Representative
Signature

Printed Name

Title

Date

[Page 33 of 33]
Indianapolis City - County Council RCS# 498

2020-2023
2024-2027
1/8/2025 7:32 PM
Proposal: PROP24- 383 Ordinance: S.O. (PASSED)
Sponsor: CAHILL
Action: Adopt
Committee: Metro. and Econ, Dev.
Yea: 24 Nay: 0 Abstain: 0 Not Voting: 0 Excused: 1
Yea - 24
Allen Cahill Graves Mowery
Annee Carlino Hart Nielsen
Bain Delaney Jones Os
Barth Dilk Lewis Perkins
Boots Evans Mascari Roberts
Brown-A Gibson McCormick Robinson
Nay - 0
Abstain - 0
Excused - 1
Brown-J

Excused - 0
