[Page 1 of 3]
CITY-COUNTY SPECIAL RESOLUTION NO. 2, 2025
Proposal No. 395, 2024

A SPECIAL RESOLUTION recognizing the outstanding contributions to the success of Indianapolis’ convention and tourism sector in 2024.

WHEREAS, 2024 has been a landmark year for Indianapolis, with the city hosting numerous conventions, events, and attractions that brought significant economic and cultural benefits, including major national and international conferences, sports championships, cultural festivals, and trade shows, all of which have showcased the city’s capacity to serve as a hub of innovation, hospitality, and excellence; and

WHEREAS, these events have drawn tens of millions of visitors from across the globe, spotlighting
Indianapolis’ state-of-the-art facilities such as the Indiana Convention Center, Lucas Oil Stadium, and
Gainbridge Fieldhouse, while also promoting the city’s thriving culinary scene, cultural landmarks, and vibrant neighborhoods; and

WHEREAS, the city welcomed an extraordinary influx of fans and visitors, from the NBA Allstar
Weekend to the Total Solar Eclipse, from the U.S. Swimming Olympic Team Trails to the Sweet & Snacks
Expo, from enthusiastic "Swifties” who traveled from far and wide to attend Taylor Swift's record-breaking concerts, to basketball enthusiasts inspired by the Indiana Fever team and first round pick Caitlin Clark, all further solidifying the city’s reputation as a premier destination for both large-scale entertainment and athletic showcases, while also underscoring the importance, now more than ever, of empowering women and celebrating their achievements in sports, music, and beyond, inspiring a new generation of music and sports fans alike; and

WHEREAS, these efforts have helped to position Indianapolis as not only a desirable location for large- scale events but also as a leader in fostering community engagement and economic growth through strategic planning and collaboration; and

WHEREAS, the city’s convention and tourism sector has demonstrated remarkable resilience and adaptability In the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic, leveraging creativity and innovation to drive recovery and reestablish Indianapolis as a premier destination; and

WHEREAS, the success of these efforts reflects the collaborative spirit of organizations such as Visit
Indy, the Capital Improvement Board, Downtown Indy, Indiana Sports Corp. local businesses, and community members, whose collective dedication and teamwork have ensured an inclusive and welcoming environment for visitors from around the worid; and

WHEREAS, the city welcomed more than 30 million visitors, generated an estimated $5.8 billion and achieved record-breaking success in tourism metrics across the board, showcasing the strength and vibrancy of Indianapolis as a world-class destination; and

WHEREAS, these efforts support more than 83,000 men and women working in the tourism industry in all 25 districts, and have not only boosted the city’s economy but also highlighted indianapolis as a model of unity and progress, demonstrating what can be achieved through strong partnerships and shared vision;
now, therefore:

BE iT RESOLVED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA:

SECTION 1. The Indianapolis City-County Council recognizes the exceptional achievements of
Indianapolis’ convention and tourism organizations and their contribution to making 2024 a historic year for the city.

SECTION 2. The Council commends the resilience, creati and collaborative efforts of organizations, local businesses, and community members in overcoming challenges posed by the pandemic and ensuring
Indianapolis’ continued success and growth.

SECTION 3. The Council extends its heartfelt gratitude to the individuals and teams at Visit Indy, the
Capital Improvement Board, and all other partners who worked tirelessly to ensure the success of these efforts.

SPECIAL RESOLUTION RECORD 2025

[Page 2 of 3]
S.R. No. 2, 2025
Page 2

SECTION 4. The Mayor is invited to join in this resolution by affixing his signature hereto.

SECTION 5. This resolution shall be in full force and effect upon adoption and compliance with IC 36-3-4- 14.

The foregoing was passed by the City-County Council this 34 day of February, 2025, at 7:27 p.m.

. Vop Osili
f f 3 5 . President, City-County Council

Yulonda Winfield
Clerk, City-County Council

ATTEST:

Presented by me to the Mayor this 7" day of February, 2025.

A ulorab.

Yulonda Winfield
Clerk, City-County Council

baypt HA cll

Joséph H. Hogsett, Mayor

th
Approved and signed by me this \ i day of February, 2025.

STATE OF INDIANA, MARION COUNTY)
) SS:
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS )

|, Yulonda Winfield, Clerk of the City-County Council, Indianapolis, Marion County, Indiana, do hereby certify the above and foregoing is a full, true, and complete copy of Proposal No. 395, 2024, a Proposal for a
SPECIAL RESOLUTION passed by the City-County Council on the 3 day of February, 2025, by a vote of 25 YEAS a O NAYS, and was retitled Special Resolution No. 2, 2025, which was signed by the Mayor on the i his day of February, 2025, and now remains on file and on record in my office.

WITNESS my hand and the official seal of the City of indianapolis, Indiana, this { ye day of February, 2025.

Yulonda Winfield t
Clerk, City-County Council

SPECIAL RESOLUTION RECORD 2025

[Page 3 of 3]
Indianapolis City - County Council RCS# 503
2020-2023
2024-2027

2/3/2025 7:27 PM

Proposal: PROP-24 395 Ordinance: S.R. 2 (PASSED)
Sponsor: EVANS
Action: Adopt
Committee: Whole

- VOTED BY UNANIMOUS CONSENT -

Yea: 25 Nay: 0 Abstain: 0 Not Voting: 0 Excused: 0

Yea - 25
Allen Cahill Graves Mowery
Annee Carlino Hart Nielsen
Bain Delaney Jones Osili
Barth Dilk Lewis Perkins
Boots Evans Mascari Roberts
Brown-A Gibson McCormick Robinson
Brown-J

Nay -0

Abstain - 0

Not Voting - 0

Excused - 0
