[Page 1 of 6]
CITY-COUNTY GENERAL ORDINANCE NO. 5, 2023
Proposal No. 7, 2023

A PROPOSAL FOR A GENERAL ORDINANCE amending Chapter 151, Articles Ill and V, VI and VII of the
Code.

BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA:

SECTION 1. Chapter 151, Article lll of the "Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County,” regarding council committees, hereby is amended by the addition of Section 151-35 to read as follows:

ARTICLE ill. - COMMITTEES
Sec. 151-35. — Procedure and decorum.

A motion and second must be made by committee members to advance a proposal out of committee. If a proposal fails to obtain a motion and second, the committee may not vote to return the proposal to the council.

SECTION 2. Section 151-63 of the "Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County,” regarding the preparation and introduction of proposals, hereby is amended by adding the language that is underlined to read as follows:

Sec. 151-63. Procedures for introduction of proposals.

(a) Councillors or other persons authorized by law may initiate proposals for introduction by submitting such proposals to the clerk for review by the general counsel as to form and legality. If such person is not a councillor, the person shall indicate the councillor who has agreed to sponsor the proposal. Councillors or other persons authorized by law may not refile the same or substantively the same proposal within a six (6) month period without first obtaining the president's approval.

(b) If such proposal is approved by the general counsel and was submitted by noon on the fifth business day prior fo the date the preliminary agenda is to become available to the public pursuant to section 151-95(2)(b)3., the proposal shall be entered on the agenda of that meeting for introduction.

(c) The deadline established by subsection (b) may be waived only by the president of the council.

SECTION 3. Section 151-88 of the "Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County,” regarding the consideration and adoption of proposals, hereby is amended by deleting the language that is stricken and adding the language that is underlined to read as follows:

Sec. 151-88. Special requirements for consideration of proposals concerning creation and expansion of allocation areas under J.C. 36-7-15.1.

(a) In exercising the council's discretion under I.C. 36-7-15.1-9(a) fo “approve or disapprove" proposals creating or expanding tax increment financing (TIF) allocation areas under I.C. 36-7-15.1, the council and its committees shall consider the factors set forth in this subsection. Information on these factors shall be provided with the proposal at the time the proposal is introduced.

(1) Whether the city has provided a cost/benefit analysis that includes a description of how the project plan ns with the county-wide comprehensive economic development planning document; a description of how the project plan aligns with the locai/neighborhood planning document; a market analysis of the existing, possible or likely future free market unsubsidized private development in the proposed geographic area; an analysis of recent changes in the assessed value in the individual parcels located within the geographic area of the proposed project; and an analysis of use of a project TIF as compared to a TIF district.

(2) Whether the proposed geographic area of the proposed TIF district would include parcels that are in the process of being improved, even if not substantially complete enough to be assessed and added to the county's inventory of taxable property.

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2023

[Page 2 of 6]
(3)
(4)

(5)

(6)
(7)
(8)

(10)

(11)
(12)

(13)

(14)

(15)

(16)
(17)

(18)

G.O. No. 5, 2023
Page 2

Whether the city has created and implemented a uniform TIF application, employing best practices and including information needed to evaluate the proposed project and all data elements required for a TIF database, including a financial pro forma.

The extent to which the city has employed the use of alternative or complementary economic development tools and infrastructure funding prior to the use of TIF.

Whether the proposal minimizes the duration of the TIF district to the amount of time reasonably required to accomplish both the economic development goals of the TIF district and to provide for the permanent return of incremental assessed value to the base taxing units as soon as possible by decommissioning the TIF district.

Whether the proposed TIF district targets the use of tax increment financing in a targeted, limited and compact geographic area.

Whether the existing TIF districts in the jurisdiction of the redevelopment commission have sunset dates established.

Whether the existing dormant or partially dormant TIF districts in the jurisdiction of the redevelopment commission have been terminated.

Whether the proposal would expand an existing TIF district that does not have an established sunset date.

Whether the proposal is for redevelopment projects or economic development projects.
Whether the proposal includes local hiring goals and MBE/WBE participation goais.

Whether the proposal includes provisions for educational, work training, and worker retraining programs.

The extent to which the base taxing units and community organizations that may be impacted by the creation or expansion of a TIF district were included from the beginning of the process and provided with meaningful economic impact analysis including projections of foregone revenue, not limited to current financial reporting requirements in state law.

Whether the city has adopted semi-annual local reporting requirements, including a three-year capital spending plan for pay-as-you-go projects and other estimated spending for eligible uses of TIF funds.

Whether the proposal includes accountability and remediation requirements for the performance of the TIF district, including progress reports measuring performance against stated goais at the time the district was established.

Whether the proposal captures more incremental revenue than is necessary to cover debt service and reasonable reserves for the associated projects.

Whether the city has established a uniform documentation, reporting, tracking and monitoring system for TIF districts and projects, including a TIF database and a TIF website which would be a repository of the TIF data and information made available to the public.

The extent to which the proposal would remove from the base the incremental assessed vaiue of projects that were completed or substantially completed before the Metropolitan Development
Commission's adoption of the declaratory resolution.

(b) The factors set forth in subsection (a) are not exclusive, and the council may consider any other factors it deems appropriate in exercising its discretion to approve or disapprove proposals under I.C. 36- 7-15.1(9)(a). Likewise, the failure to satisfy any factor or part thereof does not limit the council's discretion fo approve or disapprove a proposal.

(c) Prior to voting to approve or disapprove a proposal creating or expanding a TIF allocation area:

(1) Aa council committee must publish notice and an agenda of the meeting in the manner prescribed by IC 5-3-1at least ten (10) days in advance, and the proposal must be specifically included on the noticed agenda-;_or

(2) The full council must publish notice of the meeting in the manner prescribed by IC 5-3-1 at least ten (10) days in advance, and the proposal must be specifically included _on the notice.

SECTION 4. Chapter 151, Article VII of the "Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County,” regarding the council office, hereby is amended by deleting the language that is stricken and adding the language that is underlined to read as follows:

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2023

[Page 3 of 6]
G.O. No. 5, 2023
Page 3

ARTICLE VII. COUNCIL OFFICE

Sec. 151-93. General duties of the clerk.

In addition to any other duties imposed by state law, this Code or other ordinances of the consolidated city and county, the clerk shall perform the following duties with respect to the proceedings of the city-county council:

(1) Actas secretary of the city-county council and each special service district council and keep and preserve an accurate journal of all proceedings of the councils;

(2) Shall cause all notices of regular and special meetings of the councils and its committees to be served in accordance with state statutes, this Code and other city-county ordinances, these rules and the directions of the president of the council; shall cause the publication of all notices of public hearings as required by law or these rules and shall also deliver all subpoenas issued by authority of the councils.

(3) Shall be the legal custodian of all records of the councils and of all ordinances and resolutions of the consolidated city and county.

(4) Shall maintain complete and orderly files containing all papers and documents of every kind and character pertaining to the business of the councils and hold them available for the use and reference of the councils and their members.

(5) Shall call the roll when directed by the presiding officer in alphabetical order, except that the president shal be called last.

Sec. 151-98. Staff officers.

(a) The city-county council shall consider for approval the recommendations of the committee on rules and public policy for appointments to the following staff officer positions:

(1) Achief administrative officer;
£4) (2)A gGeneral counsel;

£2} (3) Policy director;

43} (4) Chief financial officer;

{4) (5) Public-affairs-manager Chief communications officer;
48} (6) Assistant clerks.

Appointed staff officers shall serve until a successor is appointed by the city-county council. Staff officer positions in subsections (a)(1), (a}2\(3), (ae}(4), and (a}44(5) may be combined into one position in any combination thereof and the staff officer in the combined position shall be appointed upon recommendation of the committee on rules and public policy, subject to approval by the coun

(b) The president of the council shall be the personnel administrator for salary and compensation of the chief administrative officer and general counsel.;

(c) The chief administrative officer shall be the personnel administrator for salary and compensation of the clerk, assistant clerks, policy director, public-affairs manager chief communications officer, and chief financial officer. Appointed staff under subsections (a)(1), (a)(2), (a)(3), and (a)(4), (a)(5) and (a)(6) may be removed by a majority vote of all members of the city-county council upon recommendation by the president of the council and the committee on rules and public policy.

(d) (¢} The clerk of the council shall be: responsible for the supervision and{2)-the-persenne} admntatorfor salary and compensation of the assistant clerks. _ Appointed staff under subsection

{d\(e) There shall be two (2) assistant clerks, one (1) of whom shall be nominated by the majority caucus, and one (1) of whom shall be nominated by the minority caucus.

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2023

[Page 4 of 6]
G.O. No. 5, 2023
Page 4

Sec. 151-103. Appointment and general duties of the chief administrative officer.

The chief administrative officer shall be appointed upon the recommendation of the committee on rules and public policy, subject to approval by the council. The chief administrative officer shall:

(1) Manage the following personnel of the office: the clerk, staff under Sec. 151-98(a)(3) through (a)(6) and non-appointed staff;

(2) Supervise and coordinate the activities of the office;

(3) Oversee the daily operations of the office:

(4) Approve the hiring and dismissal of the office personnel listed in Sec. 151-103(1) subject to the limitations prescribed by law and approval by the president:

(5) Delegate to the personnel of the office authority to act on the chief administrative officer's behalf,

The president shall be responsible for supervision of the chief administrative officer.

Sec. 151-1034. Appointment and general duties of the policy director.

The policy director shall be appointed upon the recommendation of the committee on rules and public policy, subject to approval by the council. The policy director shall be responsible to the president for providing policy advice on matters relating to council business, as requested by the president, the general counsel or any member of the council. The president chief administrative officer shall be responsible for supervision of the policy director.

Sec. 151-1045, Appointment and general duties of the chief financial officer.

The chief financial officer shall be appointed upon recommendation of the committee on rules and public policy, subject to approval by the council. The chief financial officer shall be responsible to the president for analyzing and reporting of budgetary matters under the jurisdiction of the council. The president chief administrative officer shall be responsible for supervision of the chief financial officer.

Sec. 151-1056. Appointment and general duties of the chief communications officer public-affairs manager.

The public-affairs-manager chief communications officer shall be appointed upon the recommendation of the committee on rules and public policy, subject to approval by the council. The public-affairs-manager chief communications officer shall be responsible for managing media relations for the council and providing communications support for council members. The president chief administrative officer shall be responsible for supervision of the public_affairs-manager chief communications officer.

Sec. 151-1067. Personnel policies.

The president-clerk chief administrative officer shall issue personnel policies for the council office.
The personnel policies may include but are not limited to: the daily operations of the office, the supervision of non-appointed staff, and the organizational structure of the council office. A policy issued under this subsection must be in wri led with the clerk.

SECTION 5. The expressed or implied repeal or amendment by this ordinance of any other ordinance or part of any other ordinance does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this ordinance. Those rights, liabilities, and proceedings are continued, and penalties shall be imposed and enforced under the repealed or amended ordinance as if this ordinance had not been adopted.

SECTION 6. Should any provision (section, paragraph, sentence, clause, or any other portion) of this ordinance be declared by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, the remaining provision or provisions shall not be affected, if and only if such remaining provisions can, without the invalid provision or provisions, be given the effect intended by the Council in adopting this ordinance. To this end the provisions of this ordinance are severable.

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2023

[Page 5 of 6]
G.O. No. 5, 2023
Page 5
SECTION 7. The amendment to the Revised Code in SECTION 3 shail apply to proposals filed in 2022.

SECTION 8. This ordinance shall be in effect from and after its passage by the Council and compliance with
Ind. Code § 36-3-4-14.

The foregoing was passed by the City-County Council this 6" day of February, 2023, at 8:22 p.m.

ATTEST:

ity-County Council

Yulonda Winfield
Clerk, City-County Council

STATE OF INDIANA, MARION COUNTY)
) Ss:
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS )

|, Yulonda Winfield, Clerk of the City-County Council, Indianapolis, Marion County, Indiana, do hereby certify the above and foregoing is a full, true, and complete copy of Proposal No. 7, 2023, a Proposal fora GENERAL
ORDINANCE passed by the City-County Council on the 6" day of February, 2023, by a vote of 24 YEAS and 1 NAY, and was retitled General Ordinance No. 5, 2023, and now remains on file and on record in my office.

WITNESS my hand and the official seal of the City of Indianapolis, Indiana, this 7" day of February, 2023.

Yulonda Winfield
Clerk, City-County Council
(SEAL)

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2023

[Page 6 of 6]
Indianapolis City - County Council RCS# 1074

2020-2023
2020-2023
2/6/2023 8:22 PM
Proposal: PROP23- 7 Ordinance: G.O. 5 (PASSED)
Sponsor: Osili
Action: Adopt
Committee: Rules
Yea: 24 Nay: 1 Abstain: 0 Not Voting: 0 Excused: 0
Yea - 24
Adamson Carlino Jackson Mowery
Annee Dilk Jones Oliver
Bain Evans-J Larrison Osili
Barth Graves Lewis Potts
Boots Gray Mascari Ray
Brown Hart McCormick Robinson
Nay -1
Evans-E
Abstain - 0
Not Voting - 0

Excused - 0
