[Page 1 of 1]
STATE OF INDIANA          ) 
             ) 
COUNTY OF MARION         ) 
            ) 
METROPOLITAN DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION ) 
 ) 
CERTIFICATION AND REPORT OF ZONING PETITIONS     ) 
 
I, Edward D. Honea, Jr., Current Planning Administrator, Department of Metropolitan 
Development, certify that at the meeting of the Metropolitan Development Commission of 
Marion County, Indiana, held on January 21, 2026, a public hearing as required by law  pursuant to required statutory legal notice hereof published in the "Indianapolis Star” and  “Court and Commercial Record" newspapers of general circulation in Marion County, 
Indiana, said Metropolitan Development Commission acted upon the proposed zoning  ordinance amendment prayed for in petition:  
 
2025-ZON-127  6051 North Rural Street and 6101 North Keystone Avenue (Approximate 
PROP NO. 84, 2026  Addresses) 
R.O. No. 22, 2026 Washington Township, Council Districts #3 and #7 
 Kite Realty, by Joseph D. Calderon 
 Rezoning of 8.5 acres from the D-3 and C-4 districts to the D-P district, to  provide for live-work units, townhomes, and multi-family dwellings, with a total  of 247 units. 
   
I FURTHER CERTIFY that the attached ordinance is a true copy of the ordinance  prayed for in said above-listed petitions, and the Metropolitan Development Commission of 
Marion County, Indiana, by a majority of its members, adopted, approved, and  recommended 2025-ZON-127 to the City-County Council for adoption to the end that  adequate light, air, convenience of access and safety from fire, flood, and other danger may  be secured, that property values may be preserved and that the public health, comfort,  morals, and convenience and general welfare may be preserved. 
 
I FURTHER CERTIFY that the records of the Metropolitan Development Commission  of Marion County, Indiana, with regard to the above ordinance is as indicated on the attached  chart, which is incorporated herein by reference and made a part hereof. 
 
I WITNESS my hand and official seal of the Metropolitan Development Commission of 
Marion County, Indiana, this 18th day of February 2026. 
 
 
Edward D. Honea, Jr. 
Current Planning Administrator  
Division of Planning 
Department of Metropolitan Development 
 
EDH:ngw      
 
Commission Seal
