[Page 1 of 3]
CITY-COUNTY GENERAL ORDINANCE NO. 40, 2026
Proposal No. 94, 2026

PROPOSAL FOR A GENERAL ORDINANCE to amend the Revised Code to add a new section authorizing the treasurer and auditor to transmit tax statements and other related information by electronic mail pursuant to IC 6-1.1-22-8.1(h).

WHEREAS, IC 6-1.1-22-8.1(h), allows a county legislative body to adopt an ordinance authorizing the treasurer and auditor to transmit tax statements and other information by electronic mail to a person upon request; and

WHEREAS, the treasurer and auditor seek authorization from the city-county council to transmit tax statements and other related information by electronic mail, upon a taxpayer’s request, in order to increase operational efficiency, reduce postage expenses, conserve paper resources, and enhance customer services for those taxpayers electing to receive such items by electronic mail; now, therefore:

BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA:

SECTION 1. Chapter 121, Article | of the “Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County,” regarding property tax billing, hereby is amended by the addition of a NEW Section 121-103, to read as follows:

Sec. 121-103. Transmission of tax statements and other information by electronic mail.

(a) Pursuant to IC 6-1.1-22-8.1(h), the city-county council hereby authorizes the treasurer and auditor to transmit the following to a person by electronic mail:

(1) A tax statement that would otherwise be sent by the treasurer to the person by regular mail, including a statement that reflects installment payment due dates;

(2) A provisional tax statement that would otherwise be sent by the treasurer to the person by regular ma’

(3) A reconciling tax statement that would otherwise be sent by the treasurer to the person by

(4) A statement that would otherwise be sent by the auditor to the person by regular mail; and

(5) Any other information that concerns the property taxes or special assessments and would otherwise be sent by the treasurer or the auditor to the person by regular mail before the last date the property taxes or special assessments may be paid without becoming delinquent.

(b) A person requesting that the treasurer and auditor transmit statements and other information to that person by electronic mail shall file the request on a form or in a format created or approved by the department of local government finance and made available to the public by the treasurer and auditor.

(c) The treasurer and auditor shall transmit a statement or other information by electronic mail under subsection (a) to a person who, on or before March 15, files the form described in subsection (b) with the treasurer.

(d) For property with respect to which more than one (1) person is liable for property taxes and special assessments, this section applies only if all the persons liable for property taxes and special assessments designate the electronic mail address for only one (1) individual authorized to receive the statements and other information referred to in subsection (a).

SECTION 2. The expressed or implied repeal or amendment by this ordinance of any other ordinance or part of any other ordinance does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this ordinance. Those rights, liabilities, and proceedings are continued, and penalties shall be imposed and enforced under the repealed or amended ordinance as if this ordinance had not been adopted.

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2026

[Page 2 of 3]
G.O. No. 40, 2026
Page 2

SECTION 3. Should any provision (section, paragraph, sentence, clause, or any other portion) of this ordinance be declared by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, the remaining provision or provisions shall not be affected, if and only if such remaining provisions can, without the invalid ns, be given the effect intended by the Council in adopting this ordinance. To this end the provisions of this ordinance are severable.

SECTION 4. This ordinance shall be in effect from and after its passage by the Council and compliance with Ind. Code § 36-3-4-14.

The foregoing was passed by the City-County Council this 1st day of June, 2026, at 8:06 p.m.

ATTEST:

Yulonda Winfield :
Clerk, City-County Coun

“Lewis
President, City-County Council

Presented by me to the Mayor this 2nd day of June, 2026

Lulorote._ Bthapuslol

Yulonda Winfield
Clerk, City-County Council

Approved and signed by me this _¢ jt day of June, 2026. / / /

7 /—#

e

(. JOLF bh /\ /.
“ieegeh, Hogsett, Mayor

STATE OF INDIANA, MARION COUNTY)
) ss:
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS )

|, Yulonda Winfield, Clerk of the City-County Council, Indianapolis, Marion County, Indiana, do hereby certify the above and foregoing is a full, true, and complete copy of Proposal No. 94, 2026, a Proposal for a
GENERAL ORDINANCE passed by the City-County Council on the 1st day of June, 2026, by a vote of 25
YEAS and 0 NAYS, and was retitled General Ordinance No. 40, 2026, which was signed by the Mayor on the 5b day of June, 2026, and now remains on file and on record in my office.

WITNESS my hand and the official seal of the City of Indianapolis, Indiana, this Gta day of June 2026.

Yulonda Winfield
Clerk, City-County Council
(SEAL)

GENERAL ORDINANCE RECORD 2026

[Page 3 of 3]
Indianapolis City - County Council RCS# 1177

2020-2023
2024-2027
6/1/2026 8:06 PM
Proposal: PROP-26 94 Ordinance: G.O. 40 (PASSED)
Sponsor: MASCARI
Action: Adopt
Committee: Admin and Fin
Yea: 25 Nay: 0 Abstain: 0 Not Voting: 0 Excused: 0
Yea - 25
Allen Cahill Hart Nielsen
Annee Delaney Jones Osili
Bain Dilk Lewis Perkins
Barth Evans Mascari Roberts
Boots Gibson McCormick Robinson
Brown-A Graves Mowery Wells
Brown-J
Nay - 0
Abstain - 0
Not Voting - 0

Excused - 0
