=== 2021-08-09 minutes, page 1 of 27 ===
5 
 
 
 
 
 
MINUTES OF THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL 
AND 
SPECIAL SERVICE DISTRICT COUNCILS 
OF 
INDIANAPOLIS, MARION COUNTY, INDIANA 
MONDAY, AUGUST 9, 2021 
 
The City -County Council of Indianapolis, Marion County, Indiana and the Indianapolis Police 
Special Service District Council, Indianapolis Fire Special Service District Council and 
Indianapolis Solid Waste Collection Special Service District Council convened in regular 
concurrent sessions, in the Council Chamber of the City-County Building at 7:14 p.m. on Monday, 
August 9, 2021 with Councillor Osili presiding. 
 
Councillor Carlino led the opening prayer and then invited all present to join her in the Pledge of 
Allegiance to the Flag. 
 
ROLL CALL 
 
The President instructed the Clerk to take the roll call and requested members to register their 
presence on the voting machine.  The roll call was as follows: 
 
25 PRESENT: Adamson, Annee, Bain, Barth, Boots, Brown, Carlino, Dilk, Evans -E, Evans-J, 
Graves, Gray, Hart, Jackson, Jones, Larrison, Lewis, Mascari, McCormick, Mowery, Oliver, 
Osili, Potts, Ray, Robinson 
0 ABSENT:  
 
A quorum of twenty-five members being present, the President called the meeting to order. 
 
OFFICIAL COMMUNICATIONS 
 
The President recognized the Honorable Joseph Hogsett, Mayor, who made the following remarks: 
 
Good Evening, President Osili – Vice President Adamson – Leaders Lewis and Mowery, and to all of my colleagues on 
the City-County Council… I am grateful for the opportunity to speak with you tonight. 
 
It is my privilege to present the City-County Enterprise operating budget for 2022. The proposed 2022 budget represents 
the fifth consecutive budget submitted to the Council where revenues exceed expe nses. Since the balanced budget that 
the Council passed in 2017 -- and thanks to your strong leadership and continued bipartisan collaboration -- the City has 
received multiple credit rating increases that reflect a proven track record of balanced operatio ns and responsible fiscal 
decisions. 
 
But I stand before you tonight mindful that the challenges facing our city are not simply fiscal. After decades of work by 
multiple mayoral administrations to combat the scourge of gun violence in our streets, a global  pandemic and national 
economic crisis have forced Indianapolis -- and nearly every other major city in this country --  to confront an epidemic 
that has cost too many lives.

=== 2021-08-09 minutes, page 2 of 27 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 6 
That is why tonight, in addition to the 2022 budget, I am also introducing a comprehensive financial package that 
leverages the full strength of the American Rescue Plan to invest more than four hundred million dollars in once -in-a-
generation programming -- including the single-largest commitment to IMPD and community-based public safety efforts 
in our city’s two-hundred-year history. 
 
Together, this spending plan will focus on ensuring that Indianapolis remains a thriving, equitable, and safer city. 
 
Last year, you will recall, I gave this address virtually. As uncertain as that moment seemed, we were still months away 
from the eventual deployment of three life-saving vaccines. 
 
As the impacts of the pandemic have continued to stretch on, I am proud that this Council has joined me in the push for 
progress on behalf of Indianapolis residents. 
 
We have launched efforts like Circle City Forward, seeking to repair, replace, and modernize neighborhood assets 
including a multi-million-dollar investment in Indianapolis Parks facilities, a new DPW solid waste garage, and a modern 
forensics lab and coroner facility. 
 
The second round of Circle City Forward put 25 million dollars into residential streets --  those smaller arteries that we 
normally can’t address in an average construction season. Thanks to the support of the City-County Council, every single 
district will see investment in much needed projects that have been overlooked for far too long. 
 
The last year has also included pivotal development victories that are leveraging the success of our downtown back into 
neighborhoods. 
 
Chief among them is the announced re-location of Elanco’s global headquarters to the site where the GM stamping plant 
once stood. This development will bring hundreds of jobs and more than one hundred million dollars in investment to 
The Valley and surrounding neighborhoods. 
 
In addition, we have cut the ribbon of the first phase of 16 Tech; we have watched as the Infosys corporate campus leapt 
out of the ground at the old airport terminal and -- late last year -- we marked the long-awaited opening of the Assessment 
and Intervention Center in the Twin Aire neighborhood. This facility is providing better treatment of mental illness and 
addiction for those who would otherwise wind up cycling through the criminal justice system. 
 
We mobilized resources and  our experience as a host city to organize some of the most significant sporting events 
America has seen since the start of the pandemic, most prominently the entirety of March Madness.  
 
To our civic partners including the United Way of Central Indiana, the Indy Chamber, EmployIndy, the Indianapolis Arts 
Council, Visit Indy, the Indiana Sports Corp. and many more, who have implemented innovative and creative solutions 
that have kept Indianapolis going -- I say thank you. 
 
To our human service providers, who have stepped up in the face of unprecedented challeng es and continued to ensure 
that our most vulnerable residents receive the care and support they need -- I say thank you. 
 
To our corporate and philanthropic community who found new ways to show up for their employees, for their neighbors, 
and for our city -- I say thank you. 
 
And to our healthcare professionals, our front line workers, our public safety officials, and of course -- Doctor Virginia 
Caine and the Marion County Public Health Department, tonight I thank you for your relentless efforts to combat COVID-
19. 
 
Tonight’s fiscal proposal seeks to meet the moment that we find ourselves in and create transformative change with 
investments including: 
 
●  A 20-million-dollar commitment for the development and preservation of affordable housing, as well as 
over 40 million dollars for other housing and neighborhood redevelopment efforts. 
●  Over 22 million dollars in 2022 for small business support, workforce development, and economic 
recovery programming. 
●  A three-year, 17.5-million-dollar plan to upgrade and invest in our neighborhood parks. 
●  And nearly 3.5 million dollars in funding for arts and cultural programming including direct grant dollars 
for small and diverse institutions.

=== 2021-08-09 minutes, page 3 of 27 ===
August 9, 2021 
 
 7  
In today’s world, where “working-from -wherever” is increasingly common -place, we will ensure that Indianapolis 
remains an attractive city for businesses, companies, and talent. We will also ensure that Indianapolis, as the economic 
engine for Central Indiana and the state, can continue to support the infrastructure needs of the area. 
 
For example, during the 2021 construction season, Indy DPW programmed 167.5 million dollars in total capital projects. 
 
Over the next three ye ars, we will invest substantial resources into much -needed infrastructure projects, including 50 
million dollars of American Rescue Plan funding for projects that will prevent flooding in neighborhoods and repair city 
streets.  
 
Additionally, tonight I have submitted a fiscal ordinance for a third phase of  Circle City Forward that will allow us to 
invest 25 million dollars in greenway and trails projects. 
 
In total, DPW’s Infrastructure capital plan will receive an additional 125 million dollars in new investment, putting us on 
pace for an historic 1.1 billion dollars of spending since 2016 -- all without raising taxes or privatizing more assets.  
 
But we haven’t just been investing in the bricks and mortar of our community. We’re also continuing to strengthen our 
city’s social safety net. 
 
This year, 6 million dollars went into Operation: Feed Indy—a broad and sweeping effort to bolster resources for those 
who already were, or who soon became, food insecure during the pandemic.  
 
Tonight, I’m proposing an additional 6 million dollars of investment of American Rescue Plan dollars next year -- dollars 
that will allow us to invest in neighborhood-led solutions, as well as provide continued support to our major partners 
fighting hunger. 
 
Throughout the past year, federal money has accelerated our Community Plan to End Homelessness to the tune of over 
20 million dollars, allowing us to offer beds to any neighbor experiencing homelessness. And since the start of this year, 
we’ve placed more than two hundred and twenty individuals from shelter into housing. 
 
We’ve continued our Pathway to Employment effort, connecting residents experiencing homelessness with resources  
and jobs. And we’ve sustained our “housing-first” strategy, increasing the goal of our Housing to Rec overy Fund to 10 
million dollars. 
 
In addition, I am proud to announce tonight that our spending plan sets aside 12-million -dollars for our first city -
constructed low-barrier shelter and comprehensive services facility. 
 
This watershed investment will be g uided by studies already underway, evaluating the specific needs of our homeless 
population and bringing together community partners that will allow us to transition individuals to permanent supportive 
housing. 
 
As the COVID recession took hold, our effort s to keep more residents housed went into overdrive. To date, our rental 
assistance program has distributed more than 53 million dollars to landlords across Marion County, helping more than 
23 thousand families stay in their homes. 
 
As we continue to battle the pandemic, we know that incomes are still being impacted. So tonight, I’m proud to announce 
that we are submitting a proposal to the council that would allow us to partner with the State of Indiana to add up to 100 
million additional dollars to our rental assistance program.  
 
As meaningful as all these accomplishments have been, they’re not what I want to focus on tonight. 
 
While Indianapolis is a uni que place in so many ways, I speak to you tonight as our city finds itself exactly like every 
other major American city in one tragic respect: Indianapolis has experienced a tidal wave of gun violence that has swept 
across the United States, in no small measure as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. 
 
I want to be clear: while our community reels from the effects of this national trend, the impact of each and every one of 
these acts of violence has been devastatingly personal. Across this city, residents are justifiably angry at a culture of death 
that has been fueled by an oversupply of guns and a deficit of hope. 
 
But the acknowledgment of pain felt by those scarred by gun violence is meaningless without action. The compassion 
we all feel is insufficient if it does not translate into change.

=== 2021-08-09 minutes, page 4 of 27 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 8 
That is why the historic fiscal package I present tonight is aimed squarely at addressing the gun violence epidemic in our 
city.  
 
To understand where these resources will take us, it is important to first acknowledge the work that took place before 
COVID-19 brought the world to its knees: 
 
-        Four years of work with this body to fund the hiring of 150 more police officers, and the creation of the 
innovative Crime Gun Intelligence Center. 
-        Four years of working with this body to increase the amount of grant funding for grass-roots organizations 
fighting cycles of violence by more than 1 million dollars. 
-        Four years of working with this body to make investments in long-overdue technology aimed at increasing 
community trust, like bodycams, or increasing police effectiveness, like our B-Link program. 
-        Four years of working with this body to focus on treating substance abuse and mental health issues, rather 
than just arresting those who suffer. 
-        Four years of working with this body to deliver, in this budget, the first time since 1996 in wh ich zero 
tax dollars will go toward private jail facilities. 
 
But tonight, I have to be blunt with all of you about where we now find ourselves. 
 
All of the programs and policies we put in place over the last four years were rendered, in a matter of just m onths, 
completely incapable of dealing with the scope of the crisis facing cities from coast to coast. 
 
We have not sat idly by and simply watched this tragedy unfold. Since the start of the pandemic, working with the City-
County Council, we have: 
 
-        Increased funding, staffing, and support for intimate partner violence prevention programming. 
-        Promoted resources that addressed the devastating mental health toll of the pandemic. 
-        Enhanced IMPD’s data infrastructure to facilitate a real-time gun violence reduction strategy. 
-        Enacted critical reforms to improve trust and collaboration between neighborhoods and law enforcement. 
-        And added additional funding for community groups working with at-risk young adults. 
 
We have also said loudly and clearly that no American city – including Indianapolis – possessed the resources to scale 
our strategy to meet the need of a public health crisis that has shaken the local economy to its foundations and uprooted 
the social fabric of everything from child care to K-12 education. 
 
Thankfully, I stand before you tonight to acknowledge and give thanks that our advocacy did not go unheard or unheeded. 
And earlier this year, the American Rescue Plan was signed into law, which has provided our city with a transformational 
opportunity to address the epidemic of gun violence head-on. 
 
As a result, tonight I submit a budget and three -year spending plan to address the effects of COVID-19, including more 
than 150 million dollars directed towards an unprecedented anti-crime initiative. 
 
We will do this not by abandoning our data -driven strategy, but by harnessing these one -time resources and continuing 
our work to modernize our law enforcement agencies.  
 
That’s why tonight, I am asking this Council to  invest 9 million dollars over the ne xt 3 years in modern crime fighting 
technology, including cameras and license plate readers in high -crime areas, digital evidence software, a 360 -degree 
virtual training system, and the launch of a gunfire detection pilot program. 
 
We will do this not by a ssigning more tasks to the men and women of IMPD who have faced violence head on, but by 
growing the size of our community-based police force.  
 
That’s why tonight, I am asking this Council to fund an additional 100 pol ice officers who will be exclusively assigned 
to community patrols. And, I am proposing the expansion of the division of civilian Public Safety Officers within IMPD 
that will focus on non-emergency situations and paperwork, freeing our sworn law enforcement officers to focus on gun 
violence. 
 
We will do this not by abandoning our dedication to gun violence intervention, but by doubling-down on these efforts.  
 
That’s why tonight, I’m asking this Council to hire two new recruit classes of Peacemakers, growing the program to fifty 
public servants trained to assist police in preventing conflicts, and expanding our Group Violence Intervention policy 
work.

=== 2021-08-09 minutes, page 5 of 27 ===
August 9, 2021 
 
 9  
 
We will do this not by forgetting our community partners, but by quadrupling our investment in the efforts of those who 
seek to break the cycle of poverty and violence that has entangled far too many families over the last year. That’s why 
tonight, I’m asking this Council to dramatically increase our anti -violence community grants, distributing 45 million 
dollars over the next three years to groups who are fighting crime on our streets. 
 
And our violence reduction plan must be more than reactive, but proactive. That’s why we must focus also on the root 
causes of violence.  
 
Tonight, I am asking this Council to fund 30 million dollars of mental health programming over the next three years, as 
well as more than 10 million dollars in 2022 for re-entry, domestic violence services, training, and youth programming. 
 
To repeat myself: I am asking this Council to work with me to allocate more than 150 million dollars in funding toward 
these efforts because there is no greater challenge facing our city than the pandemic-fueled scourge of violent crime. 
 
Every American city is struggling with this crisis. But tonight, we ha ve an opportunity to lead, not follow . To take 
advantage of this unique opportunity, and break cycles of violence more than a decade in the making. To lift up our weary 
neighbors and lend backup to our brave law enforcement officers. 
 
This plan, once imple mented, will save lives. This plan, o nce funded, will make our city safer. And perhaps just as 
critically -- this plan, once approved, will provide much-needed hope to residents in neighborhoods across Indianapolis. 
 
Let’s not hide the ball -- while the federal funds that this body will consi der over the coming months were tirelessly 
championed by Congressman Andre Carson, the American Rescue Plan did not pass unanimously. And Washington has 
continued to engage in partisan sparring about matters big and small. 
 
That’s their fight.  Let it play out on cable news and on Twitter.    That’s not where our constituents live, and that’s not 
where they expect us to focus.  Because if we fall victim to the gamesmanship of that cartoon version of politics? 
 
If we allow this Council and our administration to be pulled into the insular black hole of anti -social media campaigns 
aimed at driving us farther apart? 
 
Well, we risk squandering a monumental moment where the history books will say that the City-County Government 
was tasked with matters of life and death. 
 
That’s because at a time when vaccines are safe, widely available, and free, here is the reality: this year in Indianapolis, 
we have seen weeks where the deadliest effect of the pandemic has been lives lost to gun violence, not COVID-19. 
 
Public Safety. Housing. Violence Reduction. Hunger. 
 
Each of these investments are, at their core, anti-crime initiatives.  
 
And I know all too well that there will be some who see this massive investment and question the scope of our efforts, 
calling them too broad to address the problem of violence. 
 
There may be others who question the growth of our police department or the increase in our grassroots anti -violence 
efforts. 
 
They will question why, in the midst of a simmering pandemic, our city is making such massive investments into crime-
fighting programs. 
 
My answer is simple, and has been affirmed by this Council before: gun violence is a public health crisis. 
 
We have invested in the manpower, the programming, and the techno logy that has allowed us to inoculate and protect 
the public from the virus. 
 
Now is the time to invest in the infrastructure to combat a much more complex, but no less deadly threat to the lives and 
livelihoods of our residents. 
 
Now is the time to cast a side precedent and she d the burden of incrementalism that would prioritize safe politics over 
safe streets.

=== 2021-08-09 minutes, page 6 of 27 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 10 
Now is the time for this Council to act– and act boldly– to turn the tide against the scourge of gun violence. 
 
Now is the time... so together -- let’s get to work.  
 
The President thanked the Mayor for his remarks, then called for the reading of Official 
Communications.  The Clerk read the following: 
 
TO ALL MEMBERS OF THE CITY -COUNTY COUNCIL AND POLICE, FIRE AND SOLID WASTE 
COLLECTION SPECIAL SERVICE DISTRICT COUNCILS OF THE CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND MARION 
COUNTY, INDIANA 
 
Ladies And Gentlemen : 
 
You are hereby notified the REGULAR MEETINGS of the City -County Council and Police, Fire and Solid 
Waste Collection Special Service District Councils will be held in the City -County Building, in the Council 
Chambers, on Monday, August 9, 2021, at 7:00 p.m., the purpose of such MEETINGS being to conduct any 
and all business that may properly come before regular meetings of the Councils. 
 
 Respectfully, 
 s/Vop Osili 
 President, City-County Council 
 
July 16, 2021 
 
TO PRESIDENT OSILI AND MEMBERS OF THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL AND POLICE, FIRE AND 
SOLID WASTE COLLECTION SPECIAL SERVICE DISTRICT COUNCILS OF THE CITY OF 
INDIANAPOLIS AND MARION COUNTY, INDIANA: 
 
Ladies and Gentlemen: 
 
Pursuant to the laws of the State of Indiana, I caused to be published in the Court & Commercial 
Record and in the Indianapolis Star  on Friday, July 23, 2021 a copy of a Legal Notice of General 
Ordinance No. 20, 2021 (Proposal No. 149, 2021) and General Ordinance No. 25, 2021 (Proposal No. 
185, 2021).   
 
 Respectfully, 
 s/SaRita Hughes 
 Clerk of the City-County Council 
 
July 20, 2021 
 
TO PRESIDENT OSILI AND MEMBERS OF THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL AND POLICE, FIRE AND SOLID WASTE 
COLLECTION SPECIAL SERVICE DISTRICT COUNCILS OF THE CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND MARION COUNTY, 
INDIANA: 
 
Ladies and Gentlemen: 
 
I have approved with my signature and delivered this day to the Clerk of the City -County Council, SaRita Hughes, the 
following ordinance: 
 
 
FISCAL ORDINANCE NO. 14, 2021 – approves an additional appropriation totalling $33,522,259 in the 2021 City Non-
Departmental Budget ( Coronavirus Relief Federal Grant Fund) to help address the demand for residential rental 
assistance from Marion County residents who have been impacted by the pandemic 
 
FISCAL ORDINANCE NO. 15, 2021 – approves an additional appropriation totalling $3,311,371 in the 2021 Budgets of 
the Information Services Agency, Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department and Office of Public Health and Safety 
(ISA, IMPD General and Consolidated County General Funds) to support a collective community approach to public 
safety 
 
FISCAL ORDINANCE NO. 16, 2021 – approves an additional appropriation totalling $1,117,500 in the 2021 Budget of 
the Marion County Sheriff's Office (Federal Grants Fund) for the purposes of additional grant awards for combatting the 
spread of Coronavirus, law enforcement mental health resources, and to support the needs of inmates 
 
FISCAL ORDINANCE NO. 17, 2021 – approves an additional appropriation totalling $1,086,600 in the 2021 Budget of 
the Marion Superior Courts (Federal, State and Local Grants Funds) for the purposes of additional grant awards to 
cover additional expenses associated with the coronavirus pandemic, providing additional services to juvenile 
offenders, and funding positions associated with pre-trial Probation 
 
GENERAL ORDINANCE NO. 20, 2021 – amends Chapter 341 of the Code, adding a new Article III regarding waterway 
activities in and on the Downtown Canal

=== 2021-08-09 minutes, page 7 of 27 ===
August 9, 2021 
 
 11  
GENERAL ORDINANCE NO. 21, 2021 – authorizes a speed limit reduction to 25 miles per hour in the Tanglewood 
Estates and Mayflower Meadows subdivisions (District 3) 
 
GENERAL ORDINANCE NO. 22, 2021 – authorizes parking restrictions on the south side of Prospect Street near 
Morris Street (District 16) 
 
GENERAL ORDINANCE NO. 23, 2021 – authorizes a speed limit reduction to 25 miles per hour in the Whitaker Valley 
subdivision (District 24) 
 
GENERAL ORDINANCE NO. 24, 2021 – authorizes the installation of parking meters on the south side of 10th Street, 
between College Avenue and Bellefontaine Street and on the east side of Pennsylvania Street, from 11th to 10th Street 
(District 17) 
 
GENERAL ORDINANCE NO. 25, 2021 – amending the Code to add a new Chapter 710, Energy Benchmarking and 
Transparency, to Title III, Public Health and Welfare, as an energy and water benchmarking, reporting and transparency 
requirement to foster energy conservation, reduced operating costs, economic investment in efficient building stock, with 
corresponding increased valuation of assets and affordability, and a cleaner and healthier environment 
 
SPECIAL ORDINANCE NO. 6, 2021 – authorizes the issuance of Economic Development Tax Increment Revenue 
Bonds in a maximum aggregate principal amount not to exceed $135,145,000 for Elanco US, Inc. for the Elanco 
Project on the former GM Stamping Plant site (District 16) 
 
SPECIAL ORDINANCE NO. 7, 2021 – authorizes the issuance of Indiana Multifamily Note bonds in in an aggregate 
principal amount not to exceed $15,100,000 to finance a portion of the costs of acquisition, construction and equipping 
of a multifamily housing facility consisting of 156 apartment units, together with functionally related and subordinate 
facilities for low and moderate income individuals and families (Central Greens Apartments), to be located at 3355 
Kirkbride Way (District 15) 
 
GENERAL RESOLUTION NO. 5, 2021 – approves an amendment to the declaratory resolution and redevelopment 
plan for the Consolidated/Harding Street Redevelopment Area with respect to the Elevator Hill Expansion Area 
 
GENERAL RESOLUTION NO. 6, 2021 – approves an amendment to the declaratory resolution and redevelopment 
plan for the Consolidated/Harding Street Redevelopment Area with respect to the GM Expansion Area II Allocation 
Area 
 
SPECIAL RESOLUTION NO. 27, 2021 – recognizes the academic achievement of the best and brightest scholars in the 
Marion County high schools, the valedictorians 
 
SPECIAL RESOLUTION NO. 28, 2021 – supports federal background checks for all gun sales law 
 
SPECIAL RESOLUTION NO. 29, 2021 – recognizes IndyStar's 2021 Pulitzer Prize award in National Reporting for their 
year-long investigation into police dog bites 
 
SPECIAL RESOLUTION NO. 30, 2021 – recognizing former Marion County Prosecutor Terry Curry 
 
 s/Joseph H. Hogsett, Mayor 
 
ADOPTION OF THE AGENDA 
 
The President proposed the adoption of the agenda as distributed.  Councillor Adamson made the 
following motion: 
 
Mr. President: 
 
 I move to amend the agenda to advance Proposal No. 249, 2021 (currently in the Introduction of Proposals) to the first 
item of business under “Special Orders – Final Adoption” for action this evening.  Application for funds is time-sensitive 
and the proposal requires passage before the next full Council meeting.   
 
Councillor Lewis seconded the motion, and the agenda was amended on the following roll call vote; 
viz: 
 
25 YEAS: Adamson, Annee, Bain, Barth, Boots, Brown, Carlino, Dilk, Evans -E, Evans -J, 
Graves, Gray, Hart, Jackson, Jones, Larrison, Lewis, Mascari, McCormick, Mowery, Oliver, 
Osili, Potts, Ray, Robinson 
0 NAYS:

=== 2021-08-09 minutes, page 8 of 27 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 12 
 
The President stated that Proposal No. 249, 2021 will be added as the first item of business under 
Final Adoption this evening for action.  Without further objection, the agenda was adopted as 
amended. 
 
APPROVAL OF THE JOURNAL 
 
The President called for additions or corrections to the Journals of July 12, 2021.  There being no 
additions or corrections, the minutes were approved as distributed. 
 
PRESENTATION OF PETITIONS, MEMORIALS, SPECIAL RESOLUTIONS, AND 
COUNCIL RESOLUTIONS 
 
President Osili recognized Ken Clark, City Controller, who gave a brief overview presentation of 
the proposed 2022 City-County Annual Budget.  Some of the key points included: 
 
Proposed Budget Strategy: 
• Strategic investments to enhance government service and strengthen neighborhoods through economic 
recovery 
• Conservative revenue estimates while anticipating steady economic growth 
• Continued commitment to no tax increases 
• Purposeful underspend of budget vs. actual 
• Stable Credit Ratings from Credit Rating Agencies 
 
Economic Recovery: 
• The City and County continue to navigate through the COVID‐19 Pandemic  
• Several cost reduction and conservative budget measures were implemented throughout the COVID-19 
Pandemic.  
• Flat-lined expense budgets to prepare for unknown while maintaining government spending through recovery 
• Conservative revenue estimates to grow fund balances in preparation for 2020 income tax loss felt in 2022 
and beyond 
• Ended FY2020 with strong and healthy fund balances.  
• Continue to maintain zero reliance on fiscal stability fund demonstrating the City’s commitment of 
maintaining AAA bond rating. 
• Committed to maintaining balanced budgets and strong reserves 
• Continued commitment to no tax increases 
• Thoughtfully deployed $168 million Coronavirus Relief Fund received from CARES Act into the community 
and City/County government to promote economic stability and recovery 
• The American Rescue Plan Act of 2021, that provides a Coronavirus Local Fiscal Recovery Fund, will allow 
us to continue to deploy resources to ensure community’s resilient response to the public health threat caused 
by the pandemic and its related effects. 
 
 
Mr. Clark detailed law enforcement and criminal justice investments, as well as investments in the root causes of crime 
and infrastructure.  He broke down the different Government Services provided for in the budget by Staffing and 
Operations, Capital and Equipment.  He concluded by reiterating key components in the proposed 2022 budget:   
Total City/County 2022 Introduced Budget 
City and County Budgeted Revenues $1,353,864,977 
City and County Budgeted Expenses $1,353,767,739 
Estimated Change in Fund Balance $97,238

=== 2021-08-09 minutes, page 9 of 27 ===
August 9, 2021 
 
 13  
• 2022 City-County Budget Proposal 
• American Rescue Plan Fiscal 
• Circle City Forward – Phase 1 Bonds 
• Circle City Forward – Phase 3 Fiscal 
• State Rental Assistance Partnership 
• Creation of the Metropolitan Emergency Services Agency 
• Consolidation of TVSA into ISA 
• Human Resources Ordinance change and Adjustments to PERF 
 
President Osili thanked Mr. Clark for his presentation and stated that the Council looks forward to 
working with his staff in the coming months as they navigate through the budget process.   
 
PROPOSAL NO. 284, 2021.  Th e proposal, sponsored by Councillors Larrison, Mascari, Ray, 
Barth, Hart, Potts, Brown, Bain, Adamson, Carlino and J. Evans , recognizes former State 
Representative Dan Forestal.  Councillors read the proposal and presented family members with a 
copy of the document and Council pins.  Councillor Larrison moved, seconded by Councillor 
Adamson, for adoption.  Proposal No. 284, 2021 was adopted by a unanimous voice vote.   
 
Proposal No. 284, 2021 was retitled SPECIAL RESOLUTION NO. 31, 2021, and reads as follows: 
 
CITY-COUNTY SPECIAL RESOLUTION NO. 31, 2021 
 
A SPECIAL RESOLUTION recognizing former State Representative Dan Forestal. 
 
WHEREAS, Representative Forestal  graduated from Roncalli High School in 2001 and received degrees in fire 
science, public safety administration, and public administration from Ivy Tech Community College, Indiana University-
Purdue University Indianapolis, and Indiana University’s School of Public and Environmental Affairs; and 
 
WHEREAS, Forestal’s career in public safety included service as a guard at Marion County Jail II, a bailiff in 
Marion County Superior Court 11, and most recently as a lieutenant with the Indianapolis Fire Department . He was an 
active member in Firefighters Local 416, the International Association of Firefighters, and the Indianapolis Fire 
Department’s Emeral Society; and 
 
WHEREAS, Forestal was elected to the Indiana House of Representatives, representing the 100 th district in 2012 
and reelected in 2014, 2016, and 2018. He served as assistant Democratic whip and was the Ranking Democratic Member 
of the House Roads and Transportation Committee; and 
 
WHEREAS, Forestal additionally served his community by dedicating time to Habitat for Humanity, the Knights 
of Columbus, and the Wheeler Mission; and 
 
WHEREAS, Dan Forestal passed from this life on Wednesday, July 14, 2021; and 
 
WHEREAS, the death of Dan Forestal does not diminish the profound body of work that he leaves as an example, 
nor our admiration of and affection for him as a dedicated public servant; and 
 
WHEREAS, the family and acquaintances of Dan are deeply saddened at his departure, as are all who were touched 
by his courageous spirit and kindnesses; and  
 
WHEREAS, Dan’s legacy of faith and service will continue to inspire his loved ones and all who knew him; now, 
therefore: 
 
BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE 
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA: 
 
SECTION 1.  The Indianapolis City-County Council recognizes the service and accomplishments of Dan Forestal, former 
State Representative. 
 
SECTION 2.  The Council offers the family of Dan Forestal our heartfelt thoughts and prayers and our s incerest 
condolences.

=== 2021-08-09 minutes, page 10 of 27 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 14 
 
SECTION 3.  The Mayor is invited to join in this resolution by affixing his signature hereto. 
 
SECTION 4.  This resolution shall be in full force and effect upon adoption and compliance with IC 36-3-4-14. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 285, 2021.  The proposal, sponsored by Councillor Mowery , recognizes the 
Franklin Township Little League Junior All Star Team.  Councillor Mowery read the proposal and 
presented representatives with copies of t he d ocument and Council pins.  Councillo r Mowery 
moved, seconded by Councillor Annee, for adoption.  Proposal No. 285, 2021 was adopted by a 
unanimous voice vote. 
 
Proposal No. 285, 2021 was retitled SPECIAL RESOLUTION NO. 32, 2021, and reads as follows: 
 
CITY-COUNTY SPECIAL RESOLUTION NO. 32, 2021 
 
A SPECIAL RESOLUTION recognizing the Franklin Township Little League Junior All Star Team. 
 
 WHEREAS, the Franklin Township Little League Junior All Star Team won the 2021 Indiana 13-14-year-old Junior 
Little League State Tournament; and 
 
 WHEREAS, Franklin Township Little League Jr. All Star Team defeated a very talented Silver Creek Team.  Their 
amazing commitment to each other, outstanding team work, and tireless dedication led them to a 12-2 victory; and  
 
 WHEREAS, Franklin Twp. Little League Jr. All Star team became District 7 Champions by defeating Eagledale 
Little League 13 -1 in the championship gam e, they became Sectional 3 Champions by defeating Greenwood Little 
League in the final game in the best of 3 series 16-6; and 
 
 WHEREAS, Franklin Twp. Little League Jr. All Star team had a dominant state tournament run.  It went 3-0 in pool 
play, then won its semifinal and championship game on Sunday.  Completing 5 games in 4 days outscoring their 
opponents 45-13; and 
 
 WHEREAS, the group of young men were able to accomplish all of this while keeping the highest tradition of Little 
League baseball both off and on the field; and  
   
 WHEREAS, team members Kamden Floyd, Drew Grimes, Joey Lawrence, Gavyn Linn, Ray Locklear, Micah 
Monahan, Dylan Pearson, Alex Sorg, Coo per Sorg, Parker Sleeth, Christian Stinson, and Alex Toth were led by David 
Straub, Manager; Brian Wood, Coach; Conner McKenzie, Coach; and Dave Grimes, Coach; now, therefore: 
 
BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE 
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA: 
 
SECTION 1.  The Indianapolis City-County Council proudly recognizes the Franklin Township Little League Junior All 
Star Team. 
 
SECTION 2.  The Council heartily congratulates the Franklin Township Little League J unior All Star Team for their 
outstanding teamwork, commitment and dedication 
 
SECTION 3.  The Mayor is invited to join in this resolution by affixing his signature hereto. 
 
SECTION 4.  This resolution shall be in full force and effect upon adoption and compliance with IC 36-3-4-14. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 180, 2021.  Councillor Lewis rep orted that the Metropolitan and Economic 
Development Committee heard Proposal No. 180, 2021 on July 19, 2021.  The proposal, sponsored 
by Councillor Lewis , appoints Percy B land, Jr. to the Metropolitan Board of Zoning Appeals, 
Division I.  By an 11- 0 vote, the committee reported the proposal to the full Council with the 
recommendation that it do pass.  Councillor Lewis moved, seconded by Councillor Adamson, for 
adoption.  Proposal No. 180, 2021 was adopted on the following roll call vote; viz:

=== 2021-08-09 minutes, page 11 of 27 ===
August 9, 2021 
 
 15  
25 YEAS: Adamson, Annee, Bain, Barth, Boots, Brown, Carlino, Dilk, Evans -E, Evans -J, 
Graves, Gray, Hart, Jackson, Jones, Larrison, Lewis, Mascari, McCormick, Mowery, Oliver, 
Osili, Potts, Ray, Robinson 
0 NAYS:  
 
Proposal No. 180, 2021 was  retitled COUNCIL RESOLUTION NO. 81, 2021, and r eads as 
follows: 
 
CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL RESOLUTION NO. 81, 2021 
 
A COUNCIL RESOLUTION appointing Percy Bland, Jr. to the Metropolitan Board of Zoning Appeals, Division I. 
 
BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE 
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA: 
 
SECTION 1. As a member of the Metropolitan Board of Zoning Appeals, Division I, the Council appoints:  
 
Percy Bland, Jr. 
 
SECTION 2.  The appointment made by this resolution is for a term ending December 31, 2021.  The person appointed by 
this resolution shall serve at the pleasure of the Council. Upon expiration of the term, the appointee may serve until his 
or her successor is appointed and qualifies, for a period not to exceed the holdover duration set by statute. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 181, 2021.  Councillor Gray reported that the Municipal Corporations Committee 
heard Proposal No. 181, 2021 on August 4, 2021.  The proposal, sponsored by Councillor Osili, 
appoints Monica Crain to the Marion County Health and Hospital Corporation Board of Trustees.  
By a 6-0 vote, the committee reported the proposal to the full Council with the recommendation 
that it do pass as amended.  Councillor Gray moved, seconded by Councillor Lewis, for adoption.  
Proposal No. 181, 2021 was adopted on the following roll call vote; viz: 
 
25 YEAS: Adamson, Annee, Bain, Barth, Boots, Brown, Carlino, Dilk, Evans -E, Evans -J, 
Graves, Gray, Hart, Jackson, Jones, Larrison, Lewis, Mascari, McCormick, Mowery, Oliver, 
Osili, Potts, Ray, Robinson 
0 NAYS:  
 
Proposal No. 181, 2021 was  retitled COUNCIL RESOLUTION NO. 82, 2021, and r eads as 
follows: 
 
CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL RESOLUTION NO. 82, 2021 
 
A COUNCIL RESOLUTION appointing Monica Crain to the Marion County Health and Hospital Corporation Board of 
Trustees. 
 
BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE  
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA: 
 
SECTION 1.  As a member of the Marion County Health and Hospital Corporation Board of Trustees, the Council 
appoints: 
 
Monica Crain 
 
SECTION 2.  The appointment made by this resolution is for a term ending December 31, 2021.  The person appointed by 
this resolution shall serve at the pleasure of the Council. Upon expiration of the term, the appointee may serve until his 
or her successor is appointed and qualifies, for a period not to exceed the holdover duration set by statute. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 246, 2021.  Councillor Jackson reported that the Community AffairsCommittee 
heard Proposal No. 246, 2021 on July 28, 2021.  The proposal, sponsored by Councillor Jackson,

=== 2021-08-09 minutes, page 12 of 27 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 16 
appoints Kate Howe to the Indianapolis Community Food Access Advisory Commission.  By a 7-
0 vote, the committee reported the proposal to the full Council with the recommendation that it do 
pass.  Councillor Jackson moved, seconded by Councillor Carlino, for adoption.  Proposal No. 246, 
2021 was adopted on the following roll call vote; viz: 
 
25 YEAS: Adamson, Annee, Bain, Barth, Boots, Brown, Carlino, Dilk, Evans -E, Evans -J, 
Graves, Gray, Hart, Jackson, Jones, Larrison, Lewis, Mascari, McCormick, Mowery, Oliver, 
Osili, Potts, Ray, Robinson 
0 NAYS:  
 
Proposal No. 246, 2021 was  retitled COUNCIL RESOLUTION NO. 83, 2021, and r eads as 
follows: 
 
CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL RESOLUTION NO. 83, 2021 
 
A COUNCIL RESOLUTION appointing Kate Howe to the Indianapolis Community Food Access Advisory Commission. 
 
BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE 
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA: 
 
SECTION 1. As a member of the Indianapolis Community Food Access Advisory Commission, fulfilling the member of 
a community organization requirement, the Council appoints:  
 
Kate Howe 
 
SECTION 2.  The appointment made by this resolution is for a term ending December 31, 2024.  The person appointed 
by this resolution shall serve at the pleasure of the Council. Upon expiration of the term, the appointee may serve until 
his or her successor is appointed and qualifies, for a period not to exceed the holdover duration set by statute. 
 
INTRODUCTION OF PROPOSALS 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 249, 2021. Introduced by Councillor Osili.  The Clerk read the proposal entitled:  
"A Proposal for a General Resolution which authorizes the City to submit an application for Indiana 
Emergency Rental Assistance Funds to the Indiana Housing and Community Development 
Authority"; and the President referred it to the Committee of the Whole. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 250, 2021. Introduced by Councillor Osili.  The Clerk read the proposal entitled:  
"A Proposal for a Fiscal Ordinance which approves an additional appropriation not to exceed 
$100,000,000 in the 2021 City Non-Departmental Budget (Federal Stimulus COVID Grant Fund) 
from ch aracter three to help address the demand for residential rental assistance from Marion 
County residents who have been impacted by the pandemic"; and the President referred it to the 
Administration and Finance Committee. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 251, 2021. Introduced by Councillors Mascari, Oliver, Evans and Jackson.  The 
Clerk read the proposal entitled:  "A Proposal for a Special Ordinance which authorizes the issuance 
of special taxing dis trict bonds of the Park District of the Consolidated City in an aggregate 
principal amount not to exceed $25,000,000 to finance the acquisition, construction, installation, 
and equipping of certain community parks improvements at Riverside Park, Krannert P ark, and 
Grassy Creek Park"; and the President referred it to the Administration and Finance Committee. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 252, 2021. Introduced by Councillor Mascari.  The Clerk read the proposal 
entitled:  "A Proposal for a Special Ordinance which authorizes the issuance of general obligation 
bonds of the Consolidated City in an aggreg ate principal amount not to exceed $18,000,000 to

=== 2021-08-09 minutes, page 13 of 27 ===
August 9, 2021 
 
 17  
finance the firehouse project and the solid waste facility project"; and the President referred it to 
the Administration and Finance Committee. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 253, 2021. Introduced by Councillor Mascari.  The Clerk read the proposal 
entitled:  "A Proposal for a Special Ordinance which authorizes the City to execute certain leases 
with the Indianapolis-Marion County Building Authority for the Coroner Project and Circle City 
Forward Projects, including forensics crime lab, new juvenile justice facility, animal care shelter, 
Frederick Douglass Park family center and playground projects"; and the President referred it to 
the Administration and Finance Committee. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 254, 2021. Introduced by Councillor Ol iver.  The Clerk read the proposal 
entitled:  "A Proposal for a Special Resolution which approves an inducement resolution for SCP 
Meadows, LLC, an Indiana limited liability comp any, for the issuance of City of Indianapolis 
Economic Development Revenue Bonds in an amount not to exceed $22,500,000 to provide a 
portion of the cost of the acquisition, construction, development and equipping of a proposed 
apartment complex known as West Village at Avondale Meadows which would consist of 216 
affordable rent restricted units located at 3250 East 38th Street, Washington Township, located in 
Council District 9.  The Inducement Resolution is necessary to meet certain Internal Revenue Code 
requirements and to allow SCP Meadows, LLC to apply to the Indiana Housing and Community 
Development Authority for an allocation of bond volume and Section 42 Tax Credits"; and the 
President referred it to the Metropolitan and Economic Development Committee. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 255, 2021. Introduced by Councillor Robinson.  The Clerk read the proposal 
entitled:  "A Proposal for a Fiscal Ordinance which approves an additional appropriation totaling 
$2,595,000 in the 2021 Budget of the Indianapolis Fire Department (City Federal Grants Fund) in 
characters one, two, three, and four, for the pur pose of funding expenses incurred during the 
deployments of Indiana Task Force One as part of the National Urban Search & Rescue Response 
System Response Cooperative Agreement"; and the President referred it to the Public Safety and 
Criminal Justice Committee. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 256, 2021. Introduced by Councillors Robinson and Mowery.  The Clerk read 
the proposal entitled:  "A Proposal for a General Resolution which approves and autho rizes the 
execution of an Interlocal Agreement for the Indianapolis Fire Depar tment (IFD) to provide fire 
protection and prevention services to excluded city, Beech Grove, Indiana for a fee, in order to 
provide efficiencies for both the City and Beech Grove"; and the President referred it to the Public 
Safety and Criminal Justice Committee. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 257, 2021. Introduced by Councillor Mascari.  The Clerk read the proposal 
entitled:  "A Proposal for a General Ordinance which amends the Code to clarify p rovisions 
regarding the Indianapolis Fire Department, reflect the prevailing operations of the department, and 
make technical corrections"; and the President referred it to the Public Safety and Criminal Justice 
Committee. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 258, 2021. Introduc ed by Councillor Adamson.  The Clerk read the proposal 
entitled:  "A Proposal for a General Resolution which authorizes the City of Indianapolis, acting 
through the Marion County Stormwater Management District, to finance the planning, design, 
construction, and inspection of channels, culverts, levees and dams, stewardship, studies, and water 
quality projects, and to issue up to $50 Million of revenue bonds, in one or more series, and if 
necessary, interim financing notes, and approves and authorizes other actions in respect thereto"; 
and the President referred it to the Public Works Committee.

=== 2021-08-09 minutes, page 14 of 27 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 18 
PROPOSAL NO. 259, 2021. Introduced by Councillor Annee.  The Clerk read the proposal 
entitled:  "A Proposal for a General Ordinance which authorizes a speed limit reduction to 25 miles 
per hour in the Indian Creek Section subdivision, as well as all streets within the adjacent Bells 
Run, Farmington and Glick's East 42nd Street Addition subdivisions (District 23)"; and the 
President referred it to the Public Works Committee. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 260, 2021. Introduced by Councillor Hart.  The Clerk read the proposal entitled:  
"A Proposal for a General Ordinance which authorizes a speed limit reduction to 25 miles per hour 
in the Adler Grove subdivision (District 18)"; and the President referred it to the Public Works 
Committee. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 261, 2021. Introduced by Councillors  Jones and Dilk.  The Clerk read the 
proposal entitled:  "A Proposal for a General Ordinance which authorizes a speed limit reduction 
to 25 miles per hour in the William L. Elder's University Heights, Elder's Marion Heights, Martin 
Burton's and Reliable Re alty Company's The Freeland subdivisions (Districts 16, 24)"; and the 
President referred it to the Public Works Committee. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 262, 2021. Introduced by Councillor Evans.  The Clerk read the proposal entitled:  
"A Proposal for a General Ordinance which authorizes a speed limit reduction to 25 miles per hour 
in the Cloverleaf Farms, Lyndale and Biltmore Gardens platted subdivisions  (District 22)"; and 
the President referred it to the Public Works Committee. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 26 3, 2021. Introduced by Councillor Jackson.  The Clerk read the proposal 
entitled:  "A Proposal for a Council Resolution which appoints Laura Dodds to the Indianapolis 
Community Food Access Advisory Commission"; and the President referred it to the Community 
Affairs Committee. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 264, 2021. Introduced by Councillor Robinson.  The Clerk read the proposal 
entitled:  "A Proposal for a Police Special Service District Fiscal r which approves the tax levy and 
rate for the Police Special Service District  for 2022"; and the Presi dent referred it to the Public 
Safety and Criminal Justice Committee. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 265, 2021. Introduced by Councillor Robinson.  The Clerk read the proposal 
entitled:  "A Proposal for a Fire Special Service District Fiscal r whic h approves the tax levy a nd 
rate for the Fire Special Service District for 2022"; and the President referred it to the Public Safety 
and Criminal Justice Committee. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 266, 2021. Introduced by Councillor Adamson.  The Clerk read the proposal 
entitled:  "A Proposal for a Solid Waste Collection Special Service District Fiscal r which approves 
the tax levy and rate for the Solid Waste Collection Special Service District for 2022"; and the 
President referred it to the Public Works Committee. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 267, 2021. Introduc ed by Councillors Osili, Adamson and Lewis.  The Clerk 
read the proposal entitled:  "A Proposal for a Fiscal Ordinance which adopts the annual budget for 
the City of Indianapolis and Marion County for 2022"; and the President refer red it to the 
Administration and Finance Committee. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 286, 2021. Introduced by Councillor Osili.  The Clerk read the proposal entitled:  
"A Proposal for a Fiscal Ordinance which establishes an ARP Coronavirus Local Fiscal Recovery 
Subfund of the Federal Stimulus-Coronavirus Pandemic Fund to hold the City's allocation of Fiscal 
Recovery Fund dollars from the federal government pursuant to the American Rescue Plan Act of

=== 2021-08-09 minutes, page 15 of 27 ===
August 9, 2021 
 
 19  
2021 and approves an appropriation totaling $206,309,559 in the 2021 City Non- Departmental 
Budget (ARP Coronavirus Local Fiscal Recovery Subfund) in characters one, three, and four to 
fund response efforts addressing the COVID -19 pandemic, including public -health measures; 
programs to combat the secondary economic effects of the pa ndemic faced by Marion County 
residents, small businesses, and non- profits; and expenses incurred, or that will be incurred, by 
City-County government in response to the pandemic"; and the President referred it to the 
Administration and Finance Committee. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 287, 2021. Introduced by Councillor Mascari.  The Clerk read the proposal 
entitled:  "A Proposal for a General Ordinance which approves changes to compensation and 
personnel ordinances to provide that the Controller is to apply cost of living adjustment to employee 
salary classification schedules in annual budget ordinance and to consider corresponding 
compensation increases for employees not covered by a collective bargaining ordinance; clarify 
incentive pay program and add a bonus award prog ram to recognize exemplary performance and 
service; reinstitute benefit leave for all part -time employees; waive the requirement for 2 -weeks 
notice upon separation for a payout of benefit leave for certain employees; eliminate the payout of 
benefit leave when employee is terminated for gross misconduct; clarify the language of the holiday 
ordinance as it pertains to those employees on a non- standard schedule; and add a new section 
providing paid parental leave"; and the President referred it to the Administ ration and Finance 
Committee. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 288, 2021. Introduced by Councillor Mascari.  The Clerk read the proposal 
entitled:  "A Proposal for a General Resolution which approves revisions to the City of Indianapolis 
and Marion County's membership in the  Public Employees' Retirement Plan administered by the 
Public Retirement System to revise, effective January 1, 2022, membership options for new city 
and county employees and employees that transfer between City agencies/offices/departments and 
County agencies/offices/departments, to allow those employees the choice of the PERF Hybrid or 
the PERF MyChoice: Retirement Savings Plan; and, to amend the default provision for failing to 
select a specific plan within sixty(60) days of employment to the PERF Hybrid  Plan"; and the 
President referred it to the Administration and Finance Committee. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 289, 2021. Introduced by Councillor Mascari.  The Clerk read the proposal 
entitled:  "A Proposal for a General Ordinance which revises the structure of the inf ormation 
services agency to absorb the functions formerly performed by the telecom and video services 
agency, while maintaining continuity of operations and services; to grant the information 
technology board the responsibilities and authorities formerly exercised by the telecom and video 
services board"; and the President referred it to the Administration and Finance Committee. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 290, 2021. Introduced by Councillor Adamson.  The Clerk read the proposal 
entitled:  "A Proposal for a Fiscal Ordina nce which approves an additional appropriation totaling 
$25,000,000 in the 2021 Budget of the Department of Public Works (Capital Asset Lifecycle and 
Development Fund) in Characters 3 and 4 to finance design, construction and inspection of capital 
infrastructure projects in furthe rance of development of Greenways, Neighborways, and other 
multimodal facilities as prescribed in the City of Indianapolis and Marion County Indy Moves 
Transportation Integration and Thoroughfare Plans"; and the President referred it to the Public 
Works Committee. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 291, 2021. Introduced by Councillor Robinson.  The Clerk read the proposal 
entitled:  "A Proposal for a General Ordinance which revises the structure of the Office of Public 
Health and Safety to recognize its new divisions and the creation of the Assessment & Intervention 
Center; to create the Metropolitan Emergency Services Agency, with divisions of emergency

=== 2021-08-09 minutes, page 16 of 27 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 20 
management, public safety communications, and emergency dispatch, absorbing functions 
previously performed by divisions of the Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department and Office 
of Public Safety, respectively; to create an emergency management board and an emergency 
management advisory commission in accordance with state statute; and to revise the ord inance 
governing Indianapolis Emergency Medical Services"; and the President referred it to the Public 
Safety and Criminal Justice Committee. 
 
SPECIAL ORDERS - PRIORITY BUSINESS 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 268, 2021, PROPOSAL NOS. 269-270, 2021, PROPOSAL NOS. 271-275, 2021, 
PROPOSAL NOS. 276- 281, 2021 and PROPOSAL NO. 282, 2021.  Introduced by Councillor 
Lewis.  Proposal No. 268, 2021, Proposal Nos. 269- 270, 2021, Proposal Nos. 271- 275, 2021, 
Proposal Nos. 276-281, 2021, and Proposal No. 282, 2021 are proposals for Rezoning Ordinances 
certified for approval by the Metropolitan Development Commission on July 27, June 16, July 29, 
July 20 and August 4, 2021, respectively.  The President called for any motions for public hearings 
on any of those zoning maps changes.  There being no motions for  public hearings, the proposed 
ordinances, pursuant to IC 36-7-4-608, took effect as if adopted by the City-County Council, were 
retitled for identification as REZONING ORDINANCE NOS. 76-90, 2021, the original copies of 
which ordinances are on file with the Metropolitan Development Commission, which were certified 
as follows: 
 
REZONING ORDINANCE NO. 76, 2021. 
2021-ZON-024 
401 EAST 91ST STREET (APPROXIMATE ADDRESS) 
WASHINGTON TOWNSHIP, COUNCIL DISTRICT #2 
METROPOLITAN SCHOOL DISTRICT OF WASHINGTON TOWNSHIP, by Joseph D. Calderon 
Rezoning of 4.55 acres from the D -2 district to the SU-2 district and Site Plan approval of future school -related 
improvements. 
 
REZONING ORDINANCE NO. 77, 2021. 
2021-ZON-008 
9901, 9986, 9990, 9994, 9998 EAST EDGEWOOD AVENUE & 6045  SOUTH HICKORY ROAD 
(APPROXIMATE ADDRESSES) 
FRANKLIN TOWNSHIP, COUNCIL DISTRICT #25 
M/I HOMES OF INDIANA, L.P. by Joseph D. Calderon 
Rezoning of 72.98 acres from the D-A district to the D-4 district.  
 
REZONING ORDINANCE NO. 78, 2021. 
2021-ZON-009 (AMENDED) 
5340 AND 5440 SENOUR ROAD AND 10351 EAST THOMPSON ROAD (APPROXIMATE ADDRESSES) 
FRANKLIN TOWNSHIP, COUNCIL DISTRICT #25 
M/I HOMES OF INDIANA, L.P. by Joseph D. Calderon 
Rezoning of 92 acres from the D-A and SU-1 districts to the D-4 district classification. 
 
REZONING ORDINANCE NO. 79, 2021. 
2020-CZN-842  
2450 AND 2458 NORTH ARSENAL AVENUE (APPROXIMATE ADDRESSES) 
CENTER TOWNSHIP, COUNCIL DISTRICT #17 
OASIS CHRISTIAN COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION, by David Kingen 
Rezoning of 1.32 acres from the C-1 district to the MU-2 classification to provide for a development of a mixed-
use building.

=== 2021-08-09 minutes, page 17 of 27 ===
August 9, 2021 
 
 21  
REZONING ORDINANCE NO. 80, 2021. 
2021-ZON-046 
3125 NORTH GERMAN CHURCH ROAD (APPROXIMATE ADDRESS) 
WARREN TOWNSHIP, COUNCIL DISTRICT #14 
DAVIS BUILDING GROUP, by Clark, Quinn, Moses, Scott and Grahn LLP and Elizabeth Bentz Williams 
Rezoning of 18 acres from the D-3 district to the D-5II district. 
 
REZONING ORDINANCE NO. 81, 2021. 
2021-ZON-052 
5510 SOUTH EMERSON AVENUE (APPROXIMATE ADDRESS) 
PERRY TOWNSHIP, COUNCIL DISTRICT #24 
HAVEN HEALTH MANAGEMENT LLC, by Cheyenne Riker 
Rezoning of 1.1 acres from the D-P district to the D-P district to use the existing building for a residential living 
facility for individuals with psychiatric disorders. 
 
REZONING ORDINANCE NO. 82, 2021. 
2021-CZN-835  
3801 WEST MORRIS STREET (APPROXIMATE ADDRESS) 
WAYNE TOWNSHIP, COUNCIL DISTRICT #16 
RACETRAC PETROLEUM INC. by Russell L. Brown 
Rezoning of 4.572 acres from the I-4 district to the C-7 district. 
 
REZONING ORDINANCE NO. 83, 2021. 
2021-CZN-838 
2603, 2607 AND 2611 EAST 10TH STREET AND 945 NORTH TEMPLE  AVENUE (APPROXIMATE 
ADDRESSES) 
CENTER TOWNSHIP, COUNCIL DISTRICT #17 
NEAR EAST AREA RENEWAL, by Joe Smoker 
Rezoning of 0.4 acre from the C-3 district to the MU-2 district. 
 
REZONING ORDINANCE NO. 84, 2021. 
2021-ZON-034 
6880 PENDLETON PIKE (APPROXIMATE ADDRESS) 
LAWRENCE TOWNSHIP, COUNCIL DISTRICT #13 
SYLVESTER FOSTER 
Rezoning of 5.11 acres from the C-S district to the C-4 district. 
 
REZONING ORDINANCE NO. 85, 2021. 
2021-ZON-044 
2943 EAST 46TH STREET (APPROXIMATE ADDRESS) 
WASHINGTON TOWNSHIP, COUNCIL DISTRICT #9 
THOMAS HAYES 
Rezoning of 0.28 acre from the MU-1 (W-1) (W-5) district to the C-3 (W-1) (W-5) district. 
 
REZONING ORDINANCE NO. 86, 2021. 
2021-ZON-050 (AMENDED) 
445 NORTH STATE AVENUE (APPROXIMATE ADDRESS) 
CENTER TOWNSHIP, COUNCIL DISTRICT #17 
WESTMINSTER NEIGHBORHOOD SERVICES INC., by David Kingen and Schyler Sullivan  
Rezoning of 0.21 acre from the D-8 district to the SU-1 district. 
 
REZONING ORDINANCE NO. 87, 2021. 
2021-CZN-815A 
4011 NOR TH PENNSYLVANIA STREET AND 4020 (PARTIAL)  WASHINGTON BOULEVARD 
(APPROXIMATE ADDRESSES) 
WASHINGTON TOWNSHIP, COUNCIL DISTRICT #7 
WILLIAM S. OESTERLE AND INDIANAPOLIS OPERA, by Michael Rabinowitch 
Rezoning of 1.5 acres from the SU-1 district to the C-S classification to provide for the existing religious use and 
opera center and other arts and culture-related uses.

=== 2021-08-09 minutes, page 18 of 27 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 22 
REZONING ORDINANCE NO. 88, 2021. 
2021-CZN-815B 
4011 NORTH PENNSYLVANIA STREET AND 4020 (PARTIAL)  WASHINGTON BOULEVARD 
(APPROXIMATE ADDRESSES) 
WASHINGTON TOWNSHIP, COUNCIL DISTRICT #7 
WILLIAM S. OESTERLE AND INDIANAPOLIS OPERA, by Michael Rabinowitch 
Rezoning of 1.5 acres from the SU-1 district to the D-2 classification to provide for residential development. 
 
REZONING ORDINANCE NO. 89, 2021. 
2021-CZN-827 
1921, 1925 AND 1929 NORTH COLLEGE AVENUE (APPROXIMATE ADDRESSES) 
CENTER TOWNSHIP, COUNCIL DISTRICT #17 
CUSTOM CONTAINER BUILDERS LLC, by Anthony Syers 
Rezoning of 0.38 acre from the C-1 district to the D-8 district. 
 
REZONING ORDINANCE NO. 90, 2021. 
2020-ZON-077 
3802, 3820 AND 3822 EAST 13TH STREET (APPROXIMATE ADDRESSES) 
CENTER TOWNSHIP, COUNCIL DISTRICT #12 
JOT PROPERTIES & INVESTMENTS LLC AND AAA PETRO INC., by Pat Rooney 
Rezoning of 0.68 acre from the D-5 and C-7 districts to the C-4 district to provide for the redevelopment of an automobile 
fueling station and convenience store. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 283, 2021.  Introduced by Councillor Lewis.  Proposal No. 283, 2021 is a 
proposal for a Rezoning Ordinance certified for denial by the Metropolitan Deve lopment 
Commission on July 21, 2021.  The President called for any motions for public hearings on this 
zoning map change.  There being no motions for public hearings, the proposed ordinance, pursuant 
to IC 36- 7-4-608, stands as denied by the City- County Council, the original copy of which 
ordinance is on file with the Metropolitan Development Commission, which was certified as 
follows: 
 
2021-ZON-019  
4460 MANN ROAD (APPROXIMATE ADDRESS) 
DECATUR TOWNSHIP, COUNCIL DISTRICT #22 
RANJIT DHILLION, by S. Gregory Zubek 
Rezoning of 1.83 acres from the C-3 district to the C-4 district. 
 
SPECIAL ORDERS - FINAL ADOPTION 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 249, 2021. The proposal, sponsored by Councillor Osili, authorizes the City to 
submit an application for Indiana Emergency Rental Assistance Funds to the Indiana Housing and 
Community Development Authority. 
 
 
 
 
25 YEAS: Adamson, Annee, Bain, Barth, Boots, Brown, Carlino, Dilk, Evans -E, Evans -J, 
Graves, Gray, Hart, Jackson, Jones, Larrison, Lewis, Mascari, McCormick, Mowery, Oliver, 
Osili, Potts, Ray, Robinson 
0 NAYS:  
 
Proposal No. 249, 2021 was retitled GENERAL RESOLUTION NO. 7, 2021, and reads as follows: 
 
CITY-COUNTY GENERAL RESOLUTION NO. 7, 2021 
 
A PROPOSAL FOR A GENERAL RESOLUTION to authorize the City to submit an application for Indiana Emergency 
Rental Assistance Funds to the Indiana Housing and Community Development Authority.

=== 2021-08-09 minutes, page 19 of 27 ===
August 9, 2021 
 
 23  
 
WHEREAS, at a regular meeting of the City -County Council, as the legislative body for the City of Indianapolis 
and Marion County, Indiana (“City”), held on August 9, 2021, with sufficient notice of the time and place of the meeting 
having been given and a quorum of the Council being present as required by the Revised Code of the City, a majority of 
those members present at the meeting consid ered, discussed, consented to, and adopted the following resolution ; now, 
therefore: 
BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE 
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA: 
 
SECTION 1.  The Mayor, as the City’s Chief Elected Official , is authorized to apply for and receive an award in an 
amount not to exceed One Hundred Million  and 00/100 Dollars ($ 100,000,000.00) in Indiana Emergency Rental 
Assistance 1.0 (“ IERA 1.0”) funding to provide assistance to eligible households in Marion County that are at risk of 
experiencing homelessness or housing instability and is authorized to administer any resulting grant of IERA 1.0 funding 
according to the terms and conditions set forth in the Indiana Housing and Community Development Authority’s and the 
U.S. Department of Treasury’s published policies, procedures and regulations, as amended from time to time, and as set 
forth in the City’s application. 
 
SECTION 2.  Deputy Mayor of Community Development Jeff Bennett, acting on behalf of the Mayor, is hereby 
authorized, empowered, and directed to execute, acknowledge, and deliver in the City's name and on its behalf any and 
all applications, grant agreements, documents, instruments or w ritings, as are necessary and/or as appropriate to 
consummate the application and receipt of IERA 1.0 funding. 
 
SECTION 3. This resolution shall be in full force and effect upon adoption and compliance with IC 36-3-4- 14. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 178, 2021.  Councillor Lewis rep orted that the Metropolitan and Economic 
Development Committee heard Proposal No. 178, 2021 on July 19, 2021.  The proposal, sponsored 
by Councillors Osili and Lewis, amends Chapters 740, 742 and 744 of the Consolidated Zoning 
and Subdivision Control Ordinance for Indianapolis-Marion County for technical amendments and 
the addition of a Secondary District.  By a 9-3 vote, the committee reported the proposal to the full 
Council with the recommendation that it do pass as amended.   
 
Councillor Lewis moved, seconded by Councillor Adamson, for adoption.  Proposal No. 178, 2021 
was adopted on the following roll call vote; viz: 
 
20 YEAS: Adamson, Barth, Boots, Brown, Carlino, Evans -E, Evans-J, Graves, Gray, Jackson, 
Jones, Larrison, Lewis, Mascari, McCormick, Oliver, Osili, Potts, Ray, Robinson 
5 NAYS: Annee, Bain, Dilk, Hart, Mowery 
 
Proposal No. 178, 2021 was retitled GENERAL ORDINANCE NO. 26, 2021, and reads as follows: 
 
{Due to the complexities imbedded in this document it could not be included in full form in these minutes.   
Please contact the City-County Council office at 317.327.4242 for a copy of this document or visit the Council’s 
website at indy.gov/council and use the Proposal Search function to locate the document electronically.} 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 190, 2021.  Councillor Brown reported that the Rules and Public Policy 
Committee heard Prop osal No. 190, 2021 on July  20, 2021.  T he proposal, sponsored by 
Councillors Barth, Brown, Potts, Boots, Carlino, Adamson, McCormick and Larrison , amends 
Chapter 151, Article III of the Code to add the environmental sustainability committee as a standing 
committee.  By a 6 -4 vote, the committee reported the proposal to the full Council with the 
recommendation that it do pass.   
 
Councillor Brown moved, seconded by Councillor Barth , for adoption.  Proposal No. 190, 2021 
was adopted on the following roll call vote; viz: 
 
19 YEAS: Adamson, Barth, Boots, Brown, Carlino, Evans-E, Evans-J, Graves, Jackson, Jones, 
Larrison, Lewis, Mascari, McCormick, Oliver, Osili, Potts, Ray, Robinson 
6 NAYS: Annee, Bain, Dilk, Gray, Hart, Mowery

=== 2021-08-09 minutes, page 20 of 27 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 24 
 
Proposal No. 190, 2021 was retitled GENERAL ORDINANCE NO. 27, 2021, and reads as follows: 
 
CITY-COUNTY GENERAL ORDINANCE NO. 27, 2021 
 
A PROPOSAL FOR A GENERAL ORDINANCE amending Chapter 151, Article III of the Code to add the environmental 
sustainability committee as a standing committee. 
 
 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE 
 CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA: 
 
SECTION 1.  Section 151-25 of the "Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County" hereby is amended by deleting the 
language that is stricken-through and adding the language that is underlined to read as follows: 
 
Sec. 151-25. - Standing committees enumerated.  
 
The standing committees of the council shall be as follows:  
(1)  The administration and finance committee;  
(2)  The community affairs committee;  
(3)  The education committee;  
(4)  The ethics committee;  
(5)  The metropolitan and economic development and code enforcement committee;  
(6)  The municipal corporations committee;  
(7)  The parks and recreation committee;  
(8)  The public safety and criminal justice committee; and  
(9)  The public works committee.; and 
(10)   The environmental sustainability committee. 
 
SECTION  2.  The expressed or implied repeal or amendment by this ordinance of any other ordinance or part of any other 
ordinance does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date 
of this ordinance.  Those rights, liabilities, and proceedings are continued, and penalties shall be imposed and enforced under 
the repealed or amended ordinance as if this ordinance had not been adopted. 
 
SECTION 3.  Should any provision (section, paragraph, sentence, clause, or any other portion) of this ordinance be declared 
by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, the remaining provision or provisions shall not be affected, 
if and only if such remaining provisions can, without the invalid provision or provisions, be given the effect intended by the 
Council in adopting this ordinance.  To this end the provisions of this ordinance are severable. 
 
SECTION 4.  This ordinance shall be in effect January 1, 2022, after its adoption by the Council and compliance with 
Indiana Code § 36-3-4-14. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 217, 2021.  Councillor Oliver reported that the Parks and Recreation Committee 
heard Proposal No. 217, 2021 on July 22, 2021.  The proposal, sponsored by Councillor Jackson, 
establishes interest in the purchase of real estate at 10702 E. 25th Street for the  purposes of the 
Department of Parks and Recreation, which property is owned by J. Levinsohn.  By a 9-0 vote, the 
committee reported the proposal to the full Counci l with the recommendation that it do pass.  
Councillor Oliver moved, seconded by Councillor Adamson, for adoption.  Proposal No. 217, 2021 
was adopted on the following roll call vote; viz: 
 
25 YEAS: Adamson, Annee, Bain, Barth, Boots, Brown, Carlino, Dilk, Evans -E, Evans -J, 
Graves, Gray, Hart, Jackson, Jones, Larrison, Lewis, Mascari, McCormick, Mowery, Oliver, 
Osili, Potts, Ray, Robinson 
0 NAYS:

=== 2021-08-09 minutes, page 21 of 27 ===
August 9, 2021 
 
 25  
Proposal No. 217, 2021 was retitled GENERAL RESOLUTION NO. 8, 2021, and reads as follows: 
 
CITY-COUNTY GENERAL RESOLUTION NO. 8, 2021 
 
PROPOSAL FOR A GENERAL RESOLUTION establishing that the City-County Council of the City of Indianapolis and 
Marion County, Indiana, is interested in making the purchase of specified land. 
 
WHEREAS, the City-County Council of the City of Indianapolis and Marion County, Indiana (“City-County Council”) 
is the fiscal body of the City of Indianapolis pursuant to Indiana Code section 36-1-2-6; and 
 
WHEREAS, pursuant to Indiana Code § 36-1-10.5-1, et seq., the City of Indianapolis may purchase land for a total price 
exceeding twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000.00) only after the City-County Council, as the fiscal body, passes a resolution 
to the effect that the it is interested in making a purchase of specified land; and 
 
WHEREAS, the City of Indianapolis wishes to purchase real estate depicted in Exhibit “A”, attached hereto and 
incorporated herein (“Real Estate”); and   
 
WHEREAS, the City-County Council, having considered the acquisition of the Real Estate and being duly advised, 
finds that the City-County Council has an interest in acquiring the Real Estate; now, therefore: 
 
 BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE 
 CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA: 
 
SECTION 1.  The City-County Council hereby establishes that it has an interest in acquiring the Real Estate with parcel 
numbers of 7002848 and 7042454 and each of the parcels have the same common address of 10702 E. 25
th St.   An aerial 
photo of this acquisition is depicted on Exhibit “A” with the polygonal shape.  
 
SECTION 2.  For purposes of Revised Code of the Consolidated City of Indianapolis and Marion County Section 151-66, the 
Real Estate is owned by John Levinsohn. 
 
SECTION 3. This resolution shall be in effect from and after its passage by the Council and compliance with Indiana Code § 
36-3-4-14. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 218, 2021.  Councillor Lewis rep orted that the Metropolitan and Economic 
Development Committee heard Proposal No. 218, 2021 on July 19, 2021.  The proposal, sponsored 
by Councillor Carlino,  amends the Code to increase the sales disclosure fee in compliance with IC 
6-1.1-5.5-4.  By a 12- 0 vote, the committee reported the proposal to the full Council with the 
recommendation that it do pass.  Councillor Lewis moved, seconded by Councillor Carlino , for 
adoption.  Proposal No. 218, 2021 was adopted on the following roll call vote; viz: 
 
25 YEAS: Adamson, Annee, Bain, Barth, Boots, Brown, Carlino, Dilk, Evans -E, Evans -J, 
Graves, Gray, Hart, Jackson, Jones, Larrison, Lewis, Mascari, McCormick, Mowery, Oliver, 
Osili, Potts, Ray, Robinson 
0 NAYS:  
 
Proposal No. 218, 2021 was retitled GENERAL ORDINANCE NO. 28, 2021, and reads as follows: 
 
CITY-COUNTY GENERAL ORDINANCE NO. 28, 2021 
 
PROPOSAL FOR A GENERAL ORDINANCE to amend Chapter 135-225 of the Revised Code of the Consolidated City 
and County regarding the Marion County Assessor’s sales disclosure fee.  
 
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE 
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA: 
 
SECTION 1.  Chapter 135-225 of the "Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County," regarding the Assessor’s sales 
disclosure fee, hereby is amended by the deletion of the language that is stricken-through, and by the addition of the language 
that is underscored, to read as follows:

=== 2021-08-09 minutes, page 22 of 27 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 26 
Sec. 135-225 – Mandatory electronic filing and certification process. 
 
(e) Fees. The certified provider may shall charge a transaction fee of up to ten dollars ($10.00) twenty dollars ($20.00) 
per usage of the program. The transaction fee may  shall be charged directly to the user by the certified provider, as 
determined by the county auditor. For every usage of the program for which the certified provider charges a transaction 
fee, the certified provider shall submit to the city controller a five dollar ($5.00)  ten dollar ($10.00)  portion of 
transaction fee. The city controller shall prescribe the method and timing of submitting those transaction fee revenues, 
and shall provide for the deposit of all transaction fee revenues received into the housing trust fund established 
pursuant to I.C. 36-7 -15.1-35.5. The certified provider may retain the balance of the transaction fee, In addition, the 
county auditor may authorize the certified provider to accept sales disclosure form filing fees otherwise required by 
law (e ither directly or through the office of the county auditor) and submit the filing fees to the county auditor, as 
determined by the county auditor.  This fee increase shall be retroactive to July 1, 2021. 
 
SECTION 2.  The expressed or implied repeal or amendment by this ordinance of any other ordinance or part of any other 
ordinance does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date 
of this ordinance.  Those rights, liabilities, and proceedings are continued, and penalties shall be imposed and enforced under 
the repealed or amended ordinance as if this ordinance had not been adopted. 
 
SECTION 3.  Should any provision (section, paragraph, sentence, clause, or any other portion) of this ordinance be declared 
by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, the remaining provision or provisions shall not be affected, 
if and only if such remaining provisions can, without the invalid provision or provisions, be given the effect intended by the 
Council in adopting this ordinance.  To this end the provisions of this ordinance are severable. 
 
SECTION 4.  This ordinance shall be in effect from and after its passage by the Council and compliance with Ind. Code § 36-
3-4-14. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 219, 2021.  Councillor Lewis rep orted that the Metropolitan and Economic 
Development Committee heard Proposal No. 219, 2021 on July 19, 2021.  The proposal, sponsored 
by Councillor Jones, approves the statement of benefits of BWI, LLC and 1202, LP, an applicant 
for tax abatement for property located in an economic revitalization area .  By a 12-0 vote, the 
committee reported the proposal to the full Council with the recommendation that it do pass.  
Councillor Lewis moved, seconded by Councillor Jones, for adoption.  Proposal No. 219, 2021 was 
adopted on the following roll call vote; viz: 
 
24 YEAS: Adamson, Annee, Bain, Barth, Boots, Brown, Carlino, Dilk, Evans -E, Evans -J, 
Graves, Gray, Jackson, Jones, Larrison, Lewis, Mascari, McCormick, Mowery, Oliver, Osili, 
Potts, Ray, Robinson 
1 NAY: Hart 
 
Proposal No. 219, 2021 was retitled GENERAL RESOLUTION NO. 9, 2021, and reads as follows: 
 
CITY-COUNTY GENERAL RESOLUTION NO. 9, 2021 
 
PROPOSAL FOR A GENERAL RESOLUTION to approve the statement of benefits of BWI, LLC and 1202, LP  
(hereinafter referred to as “Applicant”), an applicant for tax abatement for property located in an allocation area as defined 
by IC 36-7-15.1-26. 
 
WHEREAS, IC 6-1.1-12.1 allows a partial abatement of property taxes attributable to redevelopment, rehabilitation 
activities or installation of new equipment in Economic Revitalization Areas (each hereinafter referred to as a “Project”); 
and 
 
WHEREAS, pursuant to IC 6-1.1-12.1, the Metropolitan Development Commission of Marion County, Indiana, 
acting as the Redevelopment Commission of the Cit y of Indianapolis, Indiana (hereinafter referred to as " MDC") is 
empowered to designate Economic Revitalization Areas; and  
 
WHEREAS, IC 6-1.1-12.1 requires an applicant for Economic Revitalization Area designation to provide a 
statement of benefits and requires the MDC, before it makes a decision to designate the area as an Economic 
Revitalization Area, to determine that (i) the estimated value of a Project is reasonable for projects of that nature, (ii) the 
estimated employment at the indicated annual salaries for a Project identified in the statement of benefits can reasonably

=== 2021-08-09 minutes, page 23 of 27 ===
August 9, 2021 
 
 27  
be expected, (iii) a Project can be reasonably exp ected to yield the benefits identified in the statement of benefits and (iv) 
the totality of benefits arising from a Project is sufficient to justify Economic Revitalization Area designation; and  
 
WHEREAS, pursuant to IC 6-1.1-12.1-2(k), a statement of benefits for property located within an allocation area, as 
defined by IC 36 -7-15.1-26, may not be approved unless the City -County Council of Indianapolis and  Marion County, 
Indiana (hereinafter referred to as "Council") adopts a resolution approving the statement of benefits; and  
 
WHEREAS, the Applicant has submitted a real property Statement of Benefits to the MDC as part of its application 
for Economic Revitalization Area designation for property where Applicant’s Project will occur, located within an 
allocation area, as defined by IC 36-7-15.1-26; and 
 
WHEREAS, MDC has preliminarily approved Applicant’s Statement of Benefits, pending adoption from the 
Council, to allow the designation of the Economic Revitalization Area and related tax abatem ent pursuant to IC 6 -1.1-
12.1; now, therefore: 
 
BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE 
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA: 
 
SECTION 1.  The Council hereby approves the  Statement of Benefits  that was submitted to the MDC, as part o f the 
application for Economic Revitalization Area designation, by BWI, LLC and 1202, LP. 
 
SECTION 2.  This resolution shall be in effect from and after its passage by the Council and compliance with Ind. Code 36-
3-4-14. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 220, 2021.  Councillor Lewis rep orted that the Metropolitan and Economic 
Development Committee heard Proposal No. 178, 2021 on July 19, 2021.  The proposal, sponsored 
by Councillor J. Evans , approves the statement of benefits of Micron utrients USA, LLC, an 
applicant for tax abatement for property located in an economic revitalization area .  By an 11-0-1 
vote, the committee reported the proposal to the full Council with the recommendation that it do 
pass.  Councillor J. Evans moved, seconded by Councillor Lewis, to postpone Proposal No. 220, 
2021 until he can get some answers to some remaining questions for Co mmittee members. .  
Proposal No. 220, 2021 was postponed on the following roll call vote; viz: 
 
25 YEAS: Adamson, Annee, Bain, Barth, Boots, Brown, Carlino, Dilk, Evans -E, Evans -J, 
Graves, Gray, Ha rt, Jackson, Jones, Larrison, Lewis, Mascari, McCormick, Mowery, Oliver, 
Osili, Potts, Ray, Robinson 
0 NAYS:  
 
Councillor Adamson reported that the Public Works Committee heard Proposal Nos. 223-226, 2021 
on July 15, 2021.  He asked for consent to vote on these proposals together.  Consent was given.   
 
PROPOSAL NO. 223, 2021.  The proposal, sponsored by Councillor Potts, authorizes intersection 
controls and parking restrictions near 64th Street and Broadway Street (District 2) .  PROPOSAL 
NO. 224, 2021.  The proposal, sponsored by Councillor Mowery, authorizes intersection controls 
at Hunters Crossing Boulevard and Wild Turkey Drive and a speed limit reduction to 25 miles per 
hour in the Hunters Crossing Estates and Fox Hollow subdivisions (District 25).  PROPOSAL NO. 
225, 2021.  The proposal , sponsored by Councillor Carlino, authorizes a speed limit reduction to 
25 miles per hour in the Country Club Estates, Country Charm, Country Charm II, Country Pointe, 
Country Pointe II and Country Creek Villas subdivisions (District 6).  PROPOSAL NO. 226, 2021.  
The proposal, sponsored by Councillor Jackson, authorizes a speed limit reduction to 25 miles per 
hour in the Indian Creek Section, Bells Run, Farmington and Glick's East 42nd Street Addition 
subdivisions (District 14).  By 9-0 votes, the committee reported the proposals to the full Council 
with the recommendation that they do pass.  Councillor Adamson moved, seconded by Councillor 
Gray, for adoption.  Proposal Nos. 223-226, 2021 were adopted on the following roll call vote; viz:

=== 2021-08-09 minutes, page 24 of 27 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 28 
25 YEAS: Adamson, Annee, Bain, Barth, Boots, Brown, Carlino, Dilk, Evans -E, Evans -J, 
Graves, Gray, Hart, Jackson, Jones, Larrison, Lewis, Mascari, McCormick, Mowery, Oliver, 
Osili, Potts, Ray, Robinson 
0 NAYS:  
 
Proposal No. 223, 2021 was retitled GENERAL ORDINANCE NO. 29, 2021, and reads as follows: 
 
CITY-COUNTY GENERAL ORDINANCE NO. 29, 2021 
 
PROPOSAL FOR A GENERAL ORDINANCE to amend the Revised Code to make various changes to Chapter 441, Traffic 
and Chapter 621, Parking, standing and stopping restricted. 
 
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE 
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA: 
 
SECTION 1.  That the Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County, Indianapolis/Marion County, Indiana, 
specifically Sec. 441-416, Schedule of intersection controls, be, and the same is hereby amended by the deletion of the 
following, to wit: 
 
Base Map Intersection Preferential Type of Control 
11 64th Street 
Broadway Street 
64th Street 
 
Stop 
 
SECTION 2.  That the Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County, Indianapolis/Marion County, Indiana, 
specifically Sec. 441-416, Schedule of intersection controls, be, and the same is hereby amended by the addition of the 
following, to wit: 
 
Base Map Intersection Preferential Type of Control 
11 64th Street 
Broadway Street 
None 
 
All-Way 
 
 
SECTION 3.  That the Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County, Indianapolis/Marion County, Indiana, 
specifically Sec. 621-121 (b), Parking prohibited at all times on certain streets, be, and the same is hereby amended by 
the addition of the following, to wit: 
 
 Sixty-fourth Street, on both sides, from College Avenue to Alley 675 E;  
 
SECTION 4.  The expressed or implied repeal or amendment by this ordinance of any other ordinance or part of any other 
ordinance does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date 
of this ordinance.  Those rights, liabilities, and proceedings are continued, and penalties shall be imposed and enforced under 
the repealed or amended ordinance as if this ordinance had not been adopted. 
 
SECTION 5.  Should any provision (section, paragraph, sentence, clause, or any other portion) of this ordinance be declared 
by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, the remaining provision or provisions shall not be affected, 
if and only if such remaining provisions can, without the invalid provision or provisions, be given the effect intended by the 
Council in adopting this ordinance.  To this end the provisions of this ordinance are severable. 
 
SECTION 6.  This ordinance shall be in effect from and after its passage by the Council and compliance with Ind. Code § 36-
3-4-14. 
 
Proposal No. 224, 2021 was retitled GENERAL ORDINANCE NO. 30, 2021, and reads as follows: 
 
CITY-COUNTY GENERAL ORDINANCE NO. 30, 2021 
 
PROPOSAL FOR A GENERAL ORDINANCE to amend the Revised Code to make various changes to Chapter 441, Traffic. 
 
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE 
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA:

=== 2021-08-09 minutes, page 25 of 27 ===
August 9, 2021 
 
 29  
SECTION 1.  That the Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County, Indianapolis/Marion County, Indiana, 
specifically Sec. 441-416, Schedule of intersection controls, be, and the same is hereby amended by the  deletion of the 
following, to wit: 
 
Base Map Intersection Preferential Type of Control 
42 Hunters Crossing Boulevard          
 Wild Turkey Drive  
Hunters Crossing Boulevard 
 
Stop 
 
SECTION 2.  That the Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County, Indianapolis/Marion County, Indiana, 
specifically Sec. 441-416, Schedule of intersection controls, be, and the same is hereby amended by the addition of the 
following, to wit: 
 
Base Map Intersection Preferential Type of Control 
42 Hunters Crossing Boulevard          
 Wild Turkey Drive 
None 
 
All-Way 
 
 
SECTION 3.  That the Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County, Indianapolis/Marion County, Indiana, 
specifically Sec. 441-323, Alteration of prima facie speed limits, be, and the same is hereby amended by the addition of 
the following, to wit: 
 
All local streets within Hunters Crossing Estates platted subdivision, 25 mph. 
All local streets within Fox Hollow platted subdivision, 25 mph. 
 
SECTION 4.  The expressed or implied repeal or amendment by this ordinance of any other ordinance or part of any other 
ordinance does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date 
of this ordinance.  Those rights, liabilities, and proceedings are continued, and penalties shall be imposed and enforced under 
the repealed or amended ordinance as if this ordinance had not been adopted. 
 
SECTION 5.  Should any provision (section, paragraph, sentence, clause, or any other portion) of this ordinance be declared 
by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, the remaining provision or provisions shall not be affected, 
if and only if such remaining provisions can, without the invalid provision or provisions, be given the effect intended by the 
Council in adopting this ordinance.  To this end the provisions of this ordinance are severable. 
 
SECTION 6.  This ordinance shall be in effect from and after its passage by the Council and compliance with Ind. Code § 36-
3-4-14. 
 
Proposal No. 225, 2021 was retitled GENERAL ORDINANCE NO. 31, 2021, and reads as follows: 
 
CITY-COUNTY GENERAL ORDINANCE NO. 31, 2021 
 
PROPOSAL FOR A GENERAL ORDINANCE to amend the Revised Code to make various changes to Chapter 441, Traffic. 
 
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE 
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA: 
 
SECTION 1.  That the Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County, Indianapolis/Marion County, Indiana, 
specifically Sec. 441-323, Alteration of prima facie speed limits, be, and the same is hereby amended by the addition of 
the following, to wit: 
 
All local streets within Country Club Estates platted subdivision, 25 mph. 
All local streets within Country Charm platted subdivision, 25 mph. 
All local streets within Country Charm II platted subdivision, 25 mph. 
All local streets within Country Pointe platted subdivision, 25 mph. 
All local streets within Country Pointe II platted subdivision, 25 mph. 
All local streets within Country Creek Villas platted subdivision, 25 mph. 
 
SECTION 2.  The expressed or implied repeal or amendment by this ordinance of any other ordinance or part of any other 
ordinance does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date 
of this ordinance.  Those rights, liabilities, and proceedings are continued, and penalties shall be imposed and enforced under 
the repealed or amended ordinance as if this ordinance had not been adopted.

=== 2021-08-09 minutes, page 26 of 27 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 30 
SECTION 3.  Should any provision (section, paragraph, sentence, clause, or any other portion) of this ordinance be declared 
by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, the remaining provision or provisions shall not be affected, 
if and only if such remaining provisions can, without the invalid provision or provisions, be given the effect intended by the 
Council in adopting this ordinance.  To this end the provisions of this ordinance are severable. 
 
SECTION 4.  This ordinance shall be in effect from and after its passage by the Council and compliance with Ind. Code § 36-
3-4-14. 
 
Proposal No. 226, 2021 was retitled GENERAL ORDINANCE NO. 32, 2021, and reads as follows: 
 
CITY-COUNTY GENERAL ORDINANCE NO. 32, 2021 
 
PROPOSAL FOR A GENERAL ORDINANCE to amend the Revised Code to make various changes to Chapter 441, Traffic. 
 
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE 
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA: 
 
SECTION 1.  That the Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County, Indianapolis/Marion County, Indiana, 
specifically Sec. 441-323, Alteration of prima facie speed limits, be, and the same is hereby amended by the addition of 
the following, to wit: 
 
All local streets within Indian Creek Section platted subdivision, 25 mph. 
All local streets within Bells Run platted subdivision, 25 mph. 
All local streets within Farmington platted subdivision, 25 mph. 
All local streets within Glick’s East 42nd Street Addition platted subdivision, 25 mph. 
 
SECTION 2.  The expressed or implied repeal or amendment by this ordinance of any other ordinance or part of any other 
ordinance does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date 
of this ordinance.  Those rights, liabilities, and proceedings are continued, and penalties shall be imposed and enforced under 
the repealed or amended ordinance as if this ordinance had not been adopted. 
 
SECTION 3.  Should any provision (section, paragraph, sentence, clause, or any other portion) of this ordinance be declared 
by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, the remaining provision or provisions shall not be affected, 
if and only if such remaining provisions can, without the invalid provision or provisions, be given the effect intended by the 
Council in adopting this ordinance.  To this end the provisions of this ordinance are severable. 
 
SECTION 4.  This ordinance shall be in effect from and after its passage by the Council and compliance with Ind. Code § 36-
3-4-14. 
 
ANNOUNCEMENTS AND ADJOURNMENT 
 
The President said that the docketed agenda for this meeting of the Council having been completed, 
the Chair would entertain motions for adjournment. 
 
Councillor Mowery stated that he had been asked to offer the following motion for adjournment 
by: 
 
 (1) Councillor Boots in memory of Paul E. Ayers, Jack L. Boyd and Joseph Beatty; and 
 (2) Councillor Graves in memory of Jolie Whitney Patterson-Dalton; and 
 (3) Councillor Osili in memory of Sylvia Freeman; and 
 (4) All Councillors in memory of Dan Forestal; and 
 (5) Councillor Mascari in memory of Pat Baxter. 
 
Councillor Mowery moved the adjournment of this meeting of the Indianapolis Ci ty-County 
Council in recognition of and respect for the life and contributions of Paul E. Ayers, Jack L. Boyd, 
Joseph Beatty, Jolie Whitney Patterson-Dalton, Sylvia Freeman, Dan Forestal, and Pat Baxter.  He 
respectfully asked the support of fellow Councillors.  He further requested that the motion be made

=== 2021-08-09 minutes, page 27 of 27 ===
August 9, 2021 
 
 31  
a part of the permanent records of this body and that a letter bearing the Council seal and the 
signature of the President be sent to the families advising of this action. 
There being no further business, and upon motion duly made and seconded, the meeting adjourned 
at 9:39 p.m. 
We hereby certify that the above and foregoing is a full, true and complete record of the proceedings 
of the regular concurrent meetings of the City -Council of Indianapolis -Marion County, Indiana, 
and Indianapolis Police, Fire and Solid Waste Collection Special Service District Councils on the 
9th day of August, 2021. 
 
In Witness Whereof, we have hereunto subscribed our signatures, caused the Seal of the City of 
Indianapolis to be affixed. 
 
 
 President 
ATTEST: 
 
(SEAL)
