=== 2021-09-13 minutes, page 1 of 102 ===
5 
 
 
 
 
 
MINUTES OF THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL 
AND 
SPECIAL SERVICE DISTRICT COUNCILS 
OF 
INDIANAPOLIS, MARION COUNTY, INDIANA 
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 2021 
 
The City -County Council of Indianapolis, Marion County, Indiana and the Indianapolis Police 
Special Service District Council, Indianapolis Fire Special Service District Council and 
Indianapolis Solid Waste Collection Special Service District Council convened in regular 
concurrent sessions, in the Council Chamber of the City-County Building at 7:09 p.m. on Monday, 
September 13, 2021 with Councillor Osili presiding. 
 
Councillor Graves introduced Pastor Ken Sullivan, New Direction Church, who led the opening 
prayer.  Councillor Graves then invited all present to join him in the Pledge of Allegiance to the 
Flag. 
 
ROLL CALL 
 
The President instructed the Clerk to take the roll call and requested members to register their 
presence on the voting machine.  The roll call was as follows: 
 
24 PRESENT: Adamson, Bain, Barth, Boots, Brown, Carlino, Dilk, Evans-E, Evans-J, Graves, 
Gray, Hart, Jackson, Jones, Larrison, Lewis, Mascari, McCormick, Mowery, Oliver, Osili, 
Potts, Ray, Robinson 
1 ABSENT: Annee 
 
A quorum of twenty-four members being present, the President called the meeting to order. 
 
OFFICIAL COMMUNICATIONS 
 
The President called for the reading of Official Communications.  The Clerk read the following: 
 
TO ALL MEMBERS OF THE CITY -COUNTY COUNCIL AND POLICE, FIRE AND SOLID WASTE 
COLLECTION SPECIAL SERVICE DISTRICT COUNCILS OF THE CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND MARION 
COUNTY, INDIANA 
 
Ladies And Gentlemen : 
 
You are hereby notified the REGULAR MEETINGS of the City -County Council and Police, Fire and Solid 
Waste Collection Special Service Distr ict Councils will be held in the City -County Building, in the Council 
Chambers, on Monday, September 13, 2021, at 7:00 p.m., the purpose of such MEETINGS being to conduct 
any and all business that may properly come before regular meetings of the Councils. 
 
 Respectfully, 
 s/Vop Osili 
 President, City-County Council

=== 2021-09-13 minutes, page 2 of 102 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 6 
August 20, 2021 
 
 
TO PRESIDENT OSILI AND MEMBERS OF THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL AND POLICE, FIRE AND SOLID 
WASTE COLLECTION SPECIAL SERVICE DISTRICT COUNCILS OF THE CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND 
MARION COUNTY, INDIANA: 
 
Ladies and Gentlemen: 
 
Pursuant to the laws of the State of Indiana, I caused to be published in the Court & Commercial Record and 
in the Indianapolis Star on Friday, August 27, 2021 a copy of a Notice of Public Hearing on Proposal Nos. 250, 
255, 286 and 290, 2021, said hearing to be held on Monday, September 13, 2021 at 7:00 p.m. in the Public 
Assembly Room of the City-County Building.   
 
 Respectfully, 
 s/SaRita Hughes 
 Clerk of the City-County Council 
 
August 16, 2021 
 
TO PRESIDENT OSILI AND MEMBERS OF THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL AND POLICE, FIRE AND SOLID 
WASTE COLLECTION SPECIAL SERVICE DISTRICT COUNCILS OF THE CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND 
MARION COUNTY, INDIANA: 
 
Ladies and Gentlemen: 
 
I have approved with my signature and delivered this day to the Clerk of the  City-County Council, SaRita 
Hughes, the following ordinance: 
 
 
GENERAL RESOLUTION NO. 7, 2021 – authorizes the City to submit an application for Indiana Emergency 
Rental Assistance Funds to the Indiana Housing and Community Development Authority 
 
GENERAL RESOLUTION NO. 8, 2021 – establishes interest in the purchase of real estate at 10702 E. 25th 
Street for the purposes of the Department of Parks and Recreation, which property is owned by J. Levinsohn 
 
GENERAL RESOLUTION NO. 9, 2021 - approves the statement of benefits of BWI, LLC and 1202, LP, an 
applicant for tax abatement for property located in an economic revitalization area 
 
GENERAL ORDINANCE NO. 28, 2021 – amends the Code to increase the sales disclosure fee in compliance 
with IC 6-1.1-5.5-4 
 
GENERAL ORDINANCE NO. 29, 2021 –  authorizes intersection controls and parking restrictions near 64th 
Street and Broadway Street (District 2) 
 
GENERAL ORDINANCE NO. 30, 2021 – authorizes intersection controls at Hunters Crossing Boulevard and 
Wild Turkey Drive and a speed limit reduction to 25 miles per hour in the Hunters Crossing Estates and Fox 
Hollow subdivisions (District 25) 
 
GENERAL ORDINANCE NO. 31, 2021 – authorizes a speed limit reduction to 25 miles per hour in the Country 
Club Estates, Country Charm, Country Charm II, Country Pointe, Country Pointe II and Country Creek Villas 
subdivisions (District 6) 
 
GENERAL ORDINANCE NO. 32, 2021 – authorizes a speed limit reduction to 25 miles per hour in the Indian 
Creek Section, Bells Run, Farmington and Glick's East 42nd Street Addition subdivisions (District 14) 
 
SPECIAL RESOLUTION NO. 31, 2021 – recognizes former State Representative Dan Forestal 
 
SPECIAL RESOLUTION NO. 32, 2021 – recognizes the Franklin Township Little League Junior All Star Team 
 
 s/Joseph H. Hogsett, Mayor 
 
ADOPTION OF THE AGENDA 
 
The President proposed the adoption of the agenda as distributed.  Without objection, the agenda 
was adopted.

=== 2021-09-13 minutes, page 3 of 102 ===
September 13, 2021 
 
 7  
APPROVAL OF THE JOURNAL 
 
The President called for additions or corrections to the Journals of August 9, 2021.  There being no 
additions or corrections, the minutes were approved as distributed. 
 
PRESENTATION OF PETITIONS, MEMORIALS, SPECIAL RESOLUTIONS, AND 
COUNCIL RESOLUTIONS 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 216, 2021.  Councillor Mascari reported that the Administration and Finance 
Committee heard Proposal No. 216, 2021 on August 31, 2021.  The proposal, sponsored by 
Councillor Mascari, approves the Mayor's appointment of Joe Glass as the Director of the Office 
of Audit and Performance.  By an 11-0-1 vote, the Committee reported the proposal to the 
Council with the recommendation that it do pass.  Councillor Mascari moved, seconded by 
Councillor Jackson, for adoption.  Proposal No. 216, 2021 was adopted on the following roll call 
vote; viz: 
 
24 YEAS: Adamson, Bain, Barth, Boots, Brown, Carlino, Dilk, Evans-E, Evans-J, Graves, Gray, 
Hart, Jackson, Jones, Larrison, Lewis, Mascari, McCormick, Mowery, Oliver, Osili, Potts, Ray, 
Robinson 
0 NAYS:  
1 ABSENT: Annee 
 
Proposal No. 216, 2021 was retitled COUNCIL RESOLUTION NO. 84, 2021, and reads as 
follows: 
 
CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL RESOLUTION NO. 84, 2021 
 
A COUNCIL RESOLUTION approving the Mayor’s appointment of Joe Glass as the Director of the Office of Audit and 
Performance for a term ending December 31, 2021. 
 
WHEREAS, pursuant Section 202 -302 of the “Revised code of the Consolidated City and County,” a mayoral 
appointment naming the Director of the Office of Audit and P erformance is subject to the approval of the City -County 
Council; and 
 
WHEREAS, the Mayor of the City of Indianapolis has submitted to this Council the name of Joe Glass to serve as the 
Director of the Office of Audit and Performance at his pleasure for a term ending December 31, 2021; now, therefore: 
 
BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE 
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA: 
 
SECTION 1.  Joe Glass is approved and confirmed by the City-County Council to serve as the Director of the Office of Audit 
and Performance for a term ending December 31, 2021, and until a successor is appointed and confirmed. 
 
SECTION 2.  This resolution shall be in full force and effect upon adoption and compliance with IC § 36-3-4-14. 
 
INTRODUCTION OF PROPOSALS 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 292, 2021. Introduced by Councillors Gray, Carlino, Evans, Barth, Potts, 
Adamson, Graves and Brown.  Th e Clerk read the proposal entitled:  "A Proposal for a Special 
Ordinance which approves the  issuance of Indianapolis- Marion County Public Li brary general 
obligation bonds, Series 2021C, in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed $5,575,000 for the 
purpose of financing all or any portion of the 2021- 2022 Energy Conservation and District-Wide 
Long-Term Capital Maintenance and Equipping Project to improve patron experience and provide 
better access to information"; and the President referred it to the Muni cipal Corporations 
Committee.

=== 2021-09-13 minutes, page 4 of 102 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 8 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 293, 2021. Introduced by Councillors Gray, Carl ino, Evans, Barth, Potts, 
Adamson, Graves and Bro wn.  The Clerk read the proposal entitled:  "A Proposal for a Special 
Ordinance which approves the appropriation of the bond proceeds and investment earnings of the 
Indianapolis-Marion County Public Library general obligation bonds, Series 2021C, in an 
aggregate principal amount not to exceed $5,575,000 for the purpose of financing all or any portion 
of the 2021- 2022 Energy Conservation and District -Wide Long-Term Capital Maintenance and 
Equipping Project to improve patron experience and provide better access to information"; and the 
President referred it to the Municipal Corporations Committee. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 294, 2021. Introduced by Councillors Gray, Carlino, Evans, Barth, Potts, 
Adamson, Graves and Brown.  T he Clerk read the proposal entitled:  "A Proposal  for a Special 
Ordinance which approves the issuance of Indianapolis -Marion County Public Library general 
obligation bonds, Series 2022, in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed $5,575,000 for the 
purpose of financing all or any portion of the 2022- 2023 Energy Conservation and District-Wide 
Long-Term Capital Maintenance and Equipping Project to improve patron experience and provide 
better access to information"; and the President referred it to the Muni cipal Corporations 
Committee. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 295, 2021. Introduced by Councillors Gray, Carlino, Evans, Barth, Potts, 
Adamson, Graves and Brown.  The Clerk read the p roposal entitled:  "A Proposal for a Special 
Ordinance which approves the appropriation of proceeds and investment earnings of 
theIndianapolis-Marion County Public Library general obligation bonds, Series 2022, in an 
aggregate principal amount not to exceed $5,575,000 for the purpose of financing all or any portion 
of the 2022- 2023 Energy Conser vation and District- Wide Long-Term Capital Mainte nance and 
Equipping Project to improve patron experience and provide better access to information"; and the 
President referred it to the Municipal Corporations Committee. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 296, 2021. Introduced by Councillor Osili.  The Clerk read the proposal entitled:  
"A Proposal for a Council Resolution which reappoints Anthony Bridgeman to the Board of 
Business Neighborhood Services"; and the President referred it to the Metropolitan and Economic 
Development Committee. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 297, 2021. Introduced by Councillor Osili.  The Clerk read the proposal entitled:  
"A Proposal for a Council Resolution which reappoints Karen Celestino-Horseman to the Animal 
Services Advisory Board"; and the President referred i t to the Metropolitan and Economic 
Development Committee. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 298, 2021. Introduced by Councillor Osili.  The Clerk read the proposal entitled:  
"A Proposa l for a Council Resolution which reappoints Stacie Hurrle to the Animal Services 
Advisory Board"; and the President referred it to the Metropolitan and Economic Development 
Committee. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 299, 2021. Introduced by Councillor Osili.  The Clerk read the proposal entitled:  
"A Proposal for a Council Resolution which reappoints Richard Wils on, Jr. to the Indianapolis 
Public Transportation Corporation Board of Directors"; and the President referred it to the 
Municipal Corporations Committee. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 300, 2021. Introduced by Councillor Gray.  The Clerk read the proposal entitled:  
"A Proposal for a Fiscal Ordinance which adopts the ope rating and maintenance budgets and tax

=== 2021-09-13 minutes, page 5 of 102 ===
September 13, 2021 
 
 9  
levies of the Indianapolis Airport Authority and establishes appropriations f or said municipal 
corporation for 2022"; and the President referred it to the Municipal Corporations Committee. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 301, 2021. Introduced by Councillor Gray.  The Clerk read the proposal entitled:  
"A Proposal for a Fiscal Ordinance which adopts the operating and maintenance budgets and tax 
levies of the Capital Improvement Board of Ma nagers and establishes appropriations for said 
municipal corporation for 2022"; and the President referred it to the Municipal Corporations 
Committee. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 302, 2021. Introduced by Councillor Gray.  The Clerk read the proposal entitled:  
"A Proposal for a Fiscal Ordinance which adopts the operat ing and maintenance budgets and tax 
levies of the Health and Hospital Corporation and establishes appropriations for  said municipal 
corporation for 2022"; and the President referred it to the Municipal Corporations Committee. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 303, 2021. Introduced by Councillor Gray.  The Clerk read the proposal entitled:  
"A Proposal for a Fiscal Ordinance which adopts th e operating and maintenance budgets and tax 
levies of the Indianapolis Public Transportatio n Corporation (IndyGo) and establishes 
appropriations for said municipal corporation for 2022"; and the President referred it to the 
Municipal Corporations Committee. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 304, 2021. Introduced by Councillor Gray.  The Clerk read the proposal entitled:  
"A Proposal for a Fiscal Ordinance which adopts the operating and maintenance budgets and tax 
levies of the Indianapolis- Marion County Public Library and esta blishes appropriations for said 
municipal corporation for 2022"; and the President referred it to the Municipal Corporations 
Committee. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 305, 2021. Introduced by Councillor Adamson.  The Clerk read the proposal 
entitled:  "A Proposal for a Gen eral Ordinance which authorizes intersection controls at the 
intersection of Arsenal Avenue and Marlowe Avenue (District 17)"; and the President referred it to 
the Public Works Committee. 
 
SPECIAL ORDERS - PRIORITY BUSINESS 
 
PROPOSAL NOS. 306-308, 2021, PROPOSAL NO. 309, 2021, PROPOSAL NO. 310, 2021 and 
PROPOSAL NOS. 311-313, 2021.  Introduced by Councillor Lewis.  Proposal Nos. 306-308, 2021, 
Proposal No. 309, 2021, Proposal No. 310, 2021 and Proposal Nos. 311-313, 2021 are proposals 
for Rezoning Ordinances certified for approval by the Metropolitan Development Commission on 
August 17, 24, 31 and September 1, 2021, respectively.  The President called for any motions for 
public hearings on any of those zoning maps changes.  There being no motions for public hearings, 
the proposed ordinances, pursuant to IC 36- 7-4-608, took effect as if adopted by the City -County 
Council, were retitled for identification as REZONING ORDINANCE NOS. 91-98, 2021, the 
original copies of which ordinances are on file with the Metrop olitan Development Commission, 
which were certified as follows: 
 
REZONING ORDINANCE NO. 91, 2021. 
2021-ZON-056 
7035 BROOKVILLE ROAD (APPROXIMATE ADDRESS) 
WARREN TOWNSHIP, COUNCIL DISTRICT #18 
TIMOTHY W. HEDINGER, by David Gilman 
Rezoning of 1.15 acres from the I-1 district to the I-2 district.

=== 2021-09-13 minutes, page 6 of 102 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 10 
REZONING ORDINANCE NO. 92, 2021. 
2021-ZON-059 
2020 COLUMBIA AVENUE (APPROXIMATE ADDRESS) 
CENTER TOWNSHIP, COUNCIL DISTRICT #17 
AAAG LLC, by John Stone 
Rezoning of 0.13 acre from the I-3 district to the D-8 district. 
 
REZONING ORDINANCE NO. 93, 2021. 
2021-ZON-063 
2057 YANDES STREET (APPROXIMATE ADDRESS) 
CENTER TOWNSHIP, COUNCIL DISTRICT #17 
M/E RESIDENTIAL LLC, by David Gilman 
REZONING OF 0.13 ACRE FROM THE I-3 DISTRICT TO THE D-8 DISTRICT. 
 
REZONING ORDINANCE NO. 94, 2021. 
2021-ZON-070   
2110 DEXTER STREET (APPROXIMATE ADDRESS) 
CENTER TOWNSHIP, COUNCIL DISTRICT #11 
PRESTIGE INVESTMENTS LLC, by Andi M. Metzel 
Rezoning of 0.11 acre from the C-3 district to the D-5 district. 
 
REZONING ORDINANCE NO. 95, 2021. 
2021-ZON-045  
1036 BROAD RIPPLE AVENUE (APPROXIMATE ADDRESS) 
WASHINGTON TOWNSHIP, COUNCIL DISTRICT #2 
JTM COMMERCIAL INC., by Michael Rabinowitch 
Rezoning of 0.510 acre from the C -5 (FW) district to the D -P (FW) district to provide for eight single -family 
attached dwellings at a density of 15.7 units per acre. 
 
REZONING ORDINANCE NO. 96, 2021. 
2021-ZON-030  
1311 AND 1315 STANDISH AVENUE (APPROXIMATE ADDRESSES)  
PERRY TOWNSHIP, COUNCIL DISTRICT #16  
MANINDER S. WALIA, by John Cross  
Rezoning of 0.48 acre from the D-5 district to the D-8 district to provide for multi-family residential uses.  
 
REZONING ORDINANCE NO. 97, 2021. 
2021-ZON-062 
6806 AND 6816 EAST COUNTY LINE ROAD (APPROXIMATE ADDRESSES)  
FRANKLIN TOWNSHIP, COUNCIL DISTRICT #25  
DAVID AND DEBORAH WESTERHOLD, by David Gilman  
Rezoning of 15 acres from the D-A district to the D-6 district.  
 
REZONING ORDINANCE NO. 98, 2021. 
2021-ZON-072 
1959 SOUTH MERIDIAN STREET (APPROXIMATE ADDRESS)  
CENTER TOWNSHIP, COUNCIL DISTRICT #16  
NIGHTMARE ON EDGEWOOD LLC, by David A. Retherford  
Rezoning of 3.05 acres from the C-S district to the C-S district to provide for indoor haunted house in an 
existing building with possible future expansions, in addition to the existing uses approved by 2008-ZON-860.  
 
PROPOSAL NOS. 314-315, 2021.  Introduced by Councillor Lewis.  Proposal Nos. 314-315, 2021 
are proposals for Rezoning Ordinances certified by the Metropolitan Development Commission for 
denial on August 24, 2021.  The President called for any motions for public hearings on this zoning 
maps change.

=== 2021-09-13 minutes, page 7 of 102 ===
September 13, 2021 
 
 11  
Councillor Adamson made the following motion: 
 
Mr. President: 
 
 I move that Proposal No. 315, 2021 (Rezoning Case 2021-CZN-817), located at 2216 and 2228 North College 
Avenue be scheduled for a hearing before this Council at its next regular meeting on September 27, 2021 at 7:00 p.m. 
and that the Clerk read the announcement of such hearing and enter same in the minutes of this meeting.  
 
Proposal No. 315, 2021 was certified as follows: 
 
2021-CZN-817 (AMENDED) 
2216 AND 2228 NORTH COLLEGE AVENUE (APPROXIMATE ADDRESSES) 
CENTER TOWNSHIP, COUNCIL DISTRICT #17 
REDLINE HOLDINGS VII LLC, by David Kingen and Schyler Sullivan 
Rezoning of 0.82 acre from the D-8 district to the MU-2 district. 
 
Councillor Lewis seconded the motion, and Proposal No. 315, 2021 was scheduled for public 
hearing at the September 27, 2021 Council meeting on the following roll call vote; viz: 
 
23 YEAS: Adamson, Bain, Barth, Boots, Brown, Carlino, Dilk, Evans-E, Evans-J, Graves, Gray, 
Jackson, Jones, Larrison, Lewis, Mascari , McCormick, Mowery, Oliver, Osili, Potts, Ray, 
Robinson 
1 NAY: Hart 
1 ABSENT: Annee 
 
General Counsel Toae Kim made the following announcement: 
 
Mr. President:  
  
 This Council will hold a public hearing on Rezoning Petition No. 2021-CZN-817, Council Proposal No. 315, 2021, 
at its next regular meeting on Monday, September 27, 2021, such meeting to convene at 7:00 p.m. in these Council 
Chambers in the City-County Building in Indianapolis.  This petition proposes to rezone 0.82 acres from the D-8 district 
to the MU-2 district at 2216 and 2228 North College Avenue. 
 
 Written objections that are filed with the Clerk of the Council shall be heard at such time, or the hearing may be 
continued from time to time as found necessary by the Council.  
 
There being no further motions for public hearings, Proposal No. 314, 2021, pursuant to IC 36- 7-
4-608, was denied by the City-County Council, the original copies of which ordinance are on file 
with the Metropolitan Development Commission, which was certified as follows: 
 
2021-ZON-064   
4905 EAST THOMPSON ROAD (APPROXIMATE ADDRESS) 
PERRY TOWNSHIP, COUNCIL DISTRICT #24 
AARON CHRISTY, by Gregory J. Ilko 
Rezoning of 4.4 acres from the D-A district to the C-1 district. 
 
SPECIAL ORDERS - PUBLIC HEARING 
 
General Counsel Toae Kim read the following: 
 
As we move to the public comment portion of debate for these proposals, we would like to remind 
council members and the public of a few ground rules. In order for everyone to have a fair chance 
to speak and be heard, it is important that we each observe the following rules:

=== 2021-09-13 minutes, page 8 of 102 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 12 
First, each speaker will be limited to two minutes. Second, any public comments must 
reasonably relate to the agenda item under consideration. Third, speakers who stray from 
the item under consideration or become unduly repetitious may be asked to move on to their 
next point or conclude their comments. Finally , attendees who cause disruptions that 
prevent the Council from proceeding through today’s agenda in a reasonably effic ient 
manner will be removed. 
 
Please remember that some types of threatening speech or incitement to violence are not 
protected by the First Amendment at all. We will deal with those issues if they come up, but 
we don’t think they will. 
 
And now, Mr. Presi dent, if a council member asks for consent  to adopt these rules, we can 
proceed to public comments.  
 
President Osili called for consent to adopt these rules for public comment, and the rules were 
adopted by a unanimous voice vote. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 250, 2021 .  Councillor Mascari reported that the Adm inistration and Finance 
Committee heard Proposal No. 250, 2021 on August 24, 2021.  The proposa l, sponsored by 
Councillor Osili, approves an additional appropriation not to exceed $100,000,000 in the 2021 City 
Non-Departmental Budget (Federal Stimulus COVI D Grant Fund) from character three to help 
address the demand for residential rental assistance from Marion County residents who have been 
impacted by the pandemic .  By a 10- 0 vote, the Committee reported the proposal to the Council 
with the recommendation that it do pass.   
 
Councillor Hart asked if there is a reason this is solely for ren tal assis tance and not help for 
homeowners, as well.  Jeff Bennett, Deputy Mayor, stated that they did receive another allocation 
for mortgage assistance, and hope they w ill get more funds as the State rolls out their mortgage 
assistance program.   Councillor Hart s aid that by giving rental assistance, they are creating 
dependencies, and he asked what measures are being put in place to prevent that.  Mr. Bennett said 
that these are one-time dollars, and they are simply trying to maximize the amount of dollars used 
in Indianapolis to benefit both renters and landlords.  H e added that it has to be a Covid- related 
circumstance that triggers the need, such as job loss, medical expenses, cut in work hours, etc.  He 
said that most will not need a full 12 months of assistance, and most of the requests they are seeing 
is for $2,000 or less.  He said that between February 2020 and when they could qualify fo r these 
funds, there was a loss of income of more than $28 million in the community.  This will hopefully 
just provide a boost for households to get back on their feet.  During the application process, they 
also survey other needs to connect individuals to their partners for jobs, skills training, food, etc.   
 
Councillor Carlino asked if the do not exceed amount has changed.  General Counsel Kim stated 
that it has not.   
 
Councillor Mowery asked if there is a reason the City was not approved for mortgage dollars, but 
the State was.  Mr. Bennett said that the funds were not offered to cities, just states.  Councillor 
Mowery asked if the same services for jobs, skills, and food would be available to homeowners, as 
well.  Mr. Bennett said that they certainly would.

=== 2021-09-13 minutes, page 9 of 102 ===
September 13, 2021 
 
 13  
Councillor Gray asked if a tenant applies and is approved, but the  landlord still refuses and evicts 
them, what would happen.  Mr. Bennett said that they can cut checks directly to the tenants whose 
landlords re ject, and they could use those funds to move.  However, they can not prevent the 
landlord from evicting tenants.   
 
Councillor Oliver asked if there is a ceiling that would make someone ineligible.  Mr. Bennett said 
that there is an income-based qualification, and would be a maximum of 80%  of the area median 
income.  He said that he can send the maximum rents, but most of theirs do not exceed the HUD 
market rate and is a county-wide rate.   
 
Councillor E. Evans asked if all funds are not expended in the timeline, what happens.  Mr. Bennett 
said that they could be required to return that to the government, and must encumber by the end of 
September and then spend by the end of the year.  It is their intention to not give any dollars back.   
 
Councillor J. Evans said th at he does  not understand the lengthy discussion, as thi s should be a 
given that they would want to give these dollars to those residents affected most by the pandemic.   
 
Councillor Graves asked if these funds would meet the needs of the community.  Mr. Bennett said 
that they still have not tapped the $33.5 million in American Assistance Funds, but once they max 
out both, they will have a good sense of any kind of permanent program needed for Marion County.  
They would have to then identify a permanent source of funding for such program.   
 
President Osili called for public testimony at 7:38 p.m. 
 
Larry Vaughn, citizen, said that there are a lot of expenditures being made on new ap artment 
buildings going up downtown.  They are leasing out buildings, and subsidizing apartments, creating 
a whole new situation of dependency, but they are not helping those people who are at risk of losing 
their homes due to t he pandemic.  The re are complicated websites that make it har d to apply for 
these dollars, and only the tech-savvy can fare well.    
 
Seeing no further testimony, Councillor Mascari moved, seconded by Councillor Adamson, for 
adoption.  Proposal No. 250, 2021 was adopted on the following roll call vote; viz: 
 
24 YEAS: Adamson, Bain, Barth, Boots, Brown, Carlino, Dilk, Evans-E, Evans-J, Graves, Gray, 
Hart, Jackson, Jones, Larrison, Lewis, Mascari, McCormick, Mowery, Oliver, Osili, Potts, Ray, 
Robinson 
0 NAYS:  
1 ABSENT: Annee 
 
Proposal No. 250, 2021 was retitled FISCAL ORDINANCE NO. 18, 2021, and reads as follows: 
 
CITY-COUNTY FISCAL ORDINANCE NO. 18, 2021 
 
PROPOSAL FOR A FISCAL ORDINANCE amending the City -County Annual Budget for  2021 (City-County Fiscal 
Ordinance No. 235, 2020) by additional appropriations of up to one hundred million dollars ($100,000,000.00) for purposes 
of the City Non-Departmental. 
 
WHEREAS, the COVID-19 pandemic continues to impact the health of our community’s residents, and the pandemic’s 
resulting economic disruptions have not yet fully abated; and 
 
WHEREAS, the challenge posed by the pandemic continues to require a robust response from all levels of government 
to ensure that Marion County undergoes a robust and equitable recovery from the crisis; and

=== 2021-09-13 minutes, page 10 of 102 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 14 
WHEREAS, the end of federal protections against eviction has highlighted the vulnerability of many Marion County 
residents to eviction and housing instability caused by loss or reduction of income stemming from the pandemic; and 
 
WHEREAS, the City’s Rental Assistance Program, funded by the Council out of dollars allocated to the City out of the 
federal Emergency Rental Assistance program, has thus far provided more than $50 million in much-needed assistance to 
landlords and tenants, but more assistance is urgently needed; and 
 
WHEREAS, the City has submitted an application to the Indiana Housing and Community Development Authority 
(IHCDA) pursuant to which it stands to receive additional funds originally allocated to IHCDA out of the same federal grant; 
now, therefore: 
 
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE 
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA: 
 
SECTION 1. To provide for expenditures, the necessity for which has arisen since the adoption of the annual budget, the 
City-County Annual Budget for 2021 is hereby amended by the character increase hereinafter stated for purposes of the City 
Non-Departmental.  
 
SECTION 2. The City Non-Departmental requests an additional appropriation in character three totaling an amount not 
to exceed one hundred million dollars ($100,000,000.00) in the Federal Stimulus COVID Fund, as shown below.  
 
FUND CHAR 1 CHAR 2 CHAR 3 CHAR 4 CHAR 5 TOTAL 
Federal Stimulus 
COVID 
0 0 $100,000,000 0 0 $100,000,000 
 
SECTION 3.  This appropriation is conditioned upon the receipt of funds from the Indiana Housing and Community 
Development Authority (IHCDA), pursuant to an application authorized by the Council. In the event that an amount less 
than the amount displayed above is re ceived from IHCDA, the Council authorizes the appropriation of the full amount 
actually received to the Federal Stimulus COVID Fund in character three. 
 
SECTION 4.  Except to the extent of ma tching funds, if any, approved in this ordinance, the council does not intend 
to use the revenues from any local tax regardless of source to supplement or extend the appropriation for the agencies 
or projects authorized by this ordinance. The supervisor of  the agency or project, or both, and the controller ar e 
directed to notify in writing the city -county council immediately upon receipt of any information that the agency or 
project is, or may be, reduced or eliminated.  
 
SECTION 5.  Upon approval of this and other pending approvals, the following unappropriated fund balances are projected 
to remain at the end of 2021:   
 
FUND 2020 Year-End Balance Projected 2021 Year-End Balance 
Federal Stimulus COVID 0 0 
 
SECTION 6. This ordinance shall be in full force and effect upon adoption and compliance with IC 36-3-4-14.   
 
PROPOSAL NO. 25 2, 2021.  Councillor Mascari reported that the Administration and Finance 
Committee heard Proposal No. 252 , 2021 on August 24, 2021 .  The proposa l, sponsored by  
Councillor Mascari, authorizes the issuance of general obligation bonds of the Consolidated City 
in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed $18,000,000 to finance the firehouse p roject and 
the solid waste facility project.  By an 11-0 vote, the Committee reported the proposal to the Council 
with the recommendation that it do pass.   
 
President Osili called for public testimony at 7:41 p.m. 
 
Mr. Vaughn said that there seems to always be a bond issuance for pr incipal services in this city, 
and now with Beech Grove being  forced to merge with Ind ianapolis, they will spending more 
money on uniforms, trucks and stations, saving Beech Grove over $5 million.  He said that they are

=== 2021-09-13 minutes, page 11 of 102 ===
September 13, 2021 
 
 15  
taking Marion County tax dollars and spending them on township fire departments, which is 
unnecessary. 
 
Seeing no further testimony, Councillor Mascari moved, seconded by Councillor Lewis, for 
adoption.  Proposal No. 252, 2021 was adopted on the following roll call vote; viz: 
 
24 YEAS: Adamson, Bain, Barth, Boots, Brown, Carlino, Dilk, Evans-E, Evans-J, Graves, Gray, 
Hart, Jackson, Jones, Larrison, Lewis, Mascari, McCormick, Mowery, Oliver, Osili, Potts, Ray, 
Robinson 
0 NAYS:  
1 ABSENT: Annee 
 
Proposal No. 252, 2021 was retitled SPECIAL ORDINANCE NO. 8, 2021, and reads as follows: 
 
CITY-COUNTY SPECIAL ORDINANCE NO. 8, 2021 
 
A SPECIAL ORDINANCE  authorizing the issuance and sale of  general obligation bonds of the Consolidated City to 
procure funds to be applied to the costs of financing certain projects, and other related matters. 
 
WHEREAS, the City of Indianapolis, Indiana and Marion County, Indiana (together, the "Consolidated City") have, 
through the City-County Council of Indianapolis, Indiana and of Marion County, Indiana (the "City- County Council"), 
determined that it is necessary and desirable to proceed with the acquisition, construction, installation, equipping and/or 
financing of all or a portion of the following projects (the "Projects"): (a) the construction of a firehouse building, as 
more particularly described in Exhibit A  attached hereto, and (b ) the construction of a solid waste building, as more 
particularly described in Exhibit B attached hereto and made a part hereof; and 
 
WHEREAS, the City-County Council now determines that it will be necessary and desirable and will be of general 
benefit to the residents of the Consolidated City to issue general obligation bonds of the Consolidated City, in one or 
more series, in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed Eighteen Million Dollars ($18,000,000), payable from an ad 
valorem property tax to be levied upon all of the taxable property located within the Consolidated City, to finance the 
costs of all or a portion of the Projects,  together with expenses incidental thereto, including capitalized interest on the 
bonds, if necessary, and all expenses incurred in connection with or on account of the issuance of the bonds therefor; and 
 
WHEREAS, none of the Projects will cost the City m ore than Sixteen Million Seven Hundred Thousand Dollars 
($16,700,000); and 
 
WHEREAS, Indiana Code 6-1.1-20-3.1 requires that two public hearings be held for the purpose of receiving public 
input prior to considering the adoption of an ordinance making a preliminary determination to issue general obligation 
bonds for purposes of financing the costs of all or a portion of the Projects, and notice of the hearings was published in 
the Indianapolis Star and the Indianapolis Business Journal, and a copy of such notice has also been mailed to the Marion 
County Circuit Court Clerk; and 
 
WHEREAS, two public hearings were held by the City-County Council (or committees thereof) in accordance with 
the provisions of Indiana Code 6-1.1 -20-3.1(b)(1) and Indiana Code 36-3 -4-13(a), and public input was received 
concerning the Projects; and 
 
WHEREAS, the City -County Council has concluded, following the public hearings described above, that the 
Projects and the issuance of general obligation bonds of the Consolidated City for the purposes of financing the costs of 
all or a portion of the Projects, toge ther with expenses incidental thereto, including capitalized interest on the bonds, if 
necessary, and all expenses incurred in connection with or on account of the issuance of the bonds therefor, are necessary 
and desirable, are authorized by Indiana Code 36-3-4-21, and will be of general benefit to the Consolidated City and its 
citizens; and 
 
WHEREAS, the Consolidated City does not have sufficient funds available or provided for in the existing budgets 
or tax levies to be applied to the payment of the cost s of the Projects proposed to be financed from the proceeds of the 
bonds described herein, together with expenses incidental thereto, including capitalized interest on the bonds, if 
necessary, and all expenses incurred in connection with or on account of t he issuance of the bonds therefor, making it 
necessary for the Consolidated City to issue such bonds to finance all or a portion of the Projects, and an extraordinary 
emergency and necessity exists for the making of the additional appropriation set out herein; and

=== 2021-09-13 minutes, page 12 of 102 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 16 
WHEREAS, the Controller of the Cons olidated City has caused notice of a hearing on said appropriation to be 
published as required by law, and such public hearing was held on said appropriation at which all taxpayers and interested 
persons had an opportunity to appear and express their views as to such additional appropriation; and 
 
WHEREAS, certain preliminary expenses related to the Projects have been or will be incurred by the Consolidated 
City, or on its behalf, prior to the issuance and delivery of the Bonds; and 
 
WHEREAS, the City-County Council desires to express its intention to reimburse such expenditures as have been 
or may be incurred prior to the issuance of the Bonds, pursuant to Indiana Code  5-1-14-6 and in compliance with 
Section 1.150-2 of the U.S. Treasury Regulations promulga ted by the Internal Revenue Service (the "Treasury 
Regulations"); now, therefore: 
 
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE 
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA: 
 
SECTION 1.  The City -County Council hereby determines that this Ordinance shall constitute the preliminary 
determination of the Consolidated City required by Indiana Code 6-1.1-20-3.1(b)(1) to issue the bonds described herein 
pursuant to Indiana Code 36-3-4-21, payable from an ad valorem property tax to be levied upon all of the taxable property 
located within the Consolidated City, for purposes of financing the costs of all or a portion of the Projects, together with 
expenses incidental thereto, including capitalized interest on the bonds, if necessary, and all expenses incur red in 
connection with or on account of the issuance of the bonds therefor.  The City-County Council hereby authorizes and 
directs the proper officers of the Consolidated City, in conjunction with counsel, to give suc h notice as required by the 
provisions of Indiana Code 6-1.1-20-3.1(b)(2) and (b)(3) of the preliminary determination to issue bonds for purposes of 
financing the costs of all or a portion of the Projects.  
 
SECTION 2.  The Consolidated City is hereby authorized to make a loan in an amount not to exceed Eighteen Million 
Dollars ($18,000,000) for the purpose of providing funds to be applied to the costs of all or a portion of the Projects, 
together with expenses incidental thereto, including capitalized inte rest on the bonds, if necessary, and al l expenses 
incurred in connection with or on account of the issuance of the bonds therefor. 
 
SECTION 3.  In order to procure the funds for such loan, the Controller of the Consolidated City (the "Controller") is 
hereby authorized and directed to have prepa red and to issue and sell one or more series of the negotiable general 
obligation bonds of the Consolidat ed City.  Such Bonds shall be designated as "City of Indianapolis, Indiana, General 
Obligation Bonds, Series 2021" (with a separate letter designation for each series; and provided, that in the event a series 
of bonds is issued in a calendar year after cal endar year 2021, the designation of such series of bonds shall be 
appropriately modified to reflect such calendar year of issuance), and shall be issued in an aggregate principal amount 
not to exceed Eighteen Million Dollars ($18,000,000) (the "Bonds").  The Bonds shall constitute a general obligation of 
the Consolidated City.  The Consolidated City is authorized to levy an ad  valorem property tax on all  of the taxable 
property located within the Consolidated City, for the purpose of satisfying such general obligation.  The final aggregate 
principal amount of each series of the Bonds shall be certified by the Controller prior to the sale of such series of  the 
Bonds in the Controller's Certificate (as hereinafter defined).  The Controller's Certificate shall be conclusive for purposes 
of establishing the final aggregate principal amount of each series of the Bonds. 
 
Each series of the Bonds shall be issued in fully registered form in denominations of (i) Five Thousand Dollars ($5,000) 
or any integral multiple thereof, or (ii) One Hundred Thousand Dollars ($100,000) or any integral multiple of Five 
Thousand Dollars ($5,000) in excess thereof ( e.g., $100,000, or $105,000, or $110,000, etc.), with the final authorized 
denominations for each series of the Bonds to be set forth in the Controller's Certificate prior to the sale of such series of 
the Bonds.  The Bonds shall be numbered consecutively from 21R-1 upwards (with a separate letter designation for each 
series; and provided, that in the event a series of the Bonds is issued in a calendar year after calendar year 2021, the first 
two digits of the Bond numbers for such series shall be appropriately modified to reflect the last two digits of the calendar 
year of issuance).  The Bonds shall bear interest at a rate or rates not exceeding six percent (6.0%) per annum (the exact 
rate or rates to be determined by bidding, or, if sold to The Indianapolis Local Public Improvement Bond Bank (the 
"Bond Bank"), to be determined by private, negotiated sale, as further described herein).  The interest on the Bonds shall 
be payable semiannually on January 15 and July 15 of each year, commencing not earlier than July 15, 2022.   Interest 
shall be calculated on the basis of twelve (12) thirty (30)-day months for a three hundred sixty (360)-day year.  The Bonds 
shall mature and be payable on January 15 and/or July 15, commencing not earlier than July 15, 2022, and ending not 
later than twenty (20) years after the date of issuance of the Bonds.  The first interest payment date and the final principal 
maturity schedule for each series of the Bonds shall be certified by the Controller in the Controller's Certificate prior to 
the sale of such series of the Bonds. 
 
SECTION 4.  At the direction of the Controller, upon the advice of the Cons olidated City's corporation counsel and 
financial advisor, the Bonds maturing on such dates as are set forth in the Controller's Certificate prior to the sale of each

=== 2021-09-13 minutes, page 13 of 102 ===
September 13, 2021 
 
 17  
series of the Bonds shall be subject to redemption at the option of the Consolidated City, in whole or in part, upon at least 
thirty (30) days' written notice to the registered owner or owners of Bonds to be redeemed, on such dates as are set forth 
in the Controller's Certificate prior to the sale of such series of the Bonds, in order of matur ity determined by the 
Controller and by lot within any such maturity or maturities, at a redemption price of one hundred percent (100%) of the 
principal amount thereof with a premium of not greater than two percent (2%) as set forth in the Controller's Cer tificate 
prior to the sale of such series of the Bonds, plus accrued interest to the redemption date. 
 
Official notice of any such redemption shall be mailed by the Registrar and Paying Agent (as hereinafter defined) by first 
class mail at least thirty (30) days and not more than sixty (60) days prior to the scheduled redemption date to each of the 
registered owners of the Bonds called for redemption (unless waived by any such registered owner) at the address shown 
on the registration books of the Registrar  and Paying Agent, or at such other address as is furnished in writing by such 
registered owner to the Registrar; provided, however, that failure to gi ve such notice by mailing, or any defect therein, 
with respect to any Bond shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any other Bonds.  The 
notice shall specify the redemption price, the date and place of redemption, and the registration numbers (and, in case of 
partial redemption, the respective principal amounts) of the Bonds called for redemption.  The place of redemption may 
be at the principal corporate trust office of the Registrar and Paying Agent or as otherwise determined by the Consolidated 
City.  Interest on the Bonds (or portions thereof) so called for redemption shall c ease to accrue on the redemption date 
fixed in such notice if sufficient funds are available at the place of redemption to pay the redemption price on the 
redemption date and when such Bonds (or portions thereof) are presented for payment.  Any Bond redeemed in part may 
be exchanged for a Bond or Bonds of the same maturity in authorized denominations equal to the remaining principal 
amount thereof. 
 
In addition to the foregoing notice, the Consolidated City may also direct that further notice of redemption of the Bonds 
be given, including, without limitation, and at the option of the Consolidated City, notice described in paragraph (a) 
below given by the Registrar and Paying Agent to the parties described in paragraphs (b) and (c) below.  No defect in 
any such further notice and no failure to give all or any portion of any such further notice shall in any manner defeat the 
effectiveness of any call for redemption of Bonds so long as notice thereof is mailed as prescribed above. 
 
If so directed by the Consolid ated City, each further notice of redemption given hereunder shall contain the 
information required above for an official notice of redemption plus (i) the CUSIP numbers of all Bonds being 
redeemed; (ii) the date of issue of the Bonds as originally issued;  (iii) the rate of interest borne by each Bond 
being redeemed; (iv) the maturity date of each Bond being redeemed; and (v) any other descriptive information 
needed to identify accurately the Bonds being redeemed. 
 
If so directed by the Consolidated City, each further notice of redemption shall be sent at least thirty-five (35) days 
before the redemption date by registered or certified mail or overnight delivery service to all registered 
securities depositories then in the business of holding substantial amounts of obligations of types comprising 
the Bonds and to one or more national information services that disseminate notices of redemption of 
obligations such as the Bonds. 
 
If so directed by the Consolidated City, each such further notice shall be publishe d one time in The Bond Buyer of 
New York, New York, or, if the Registrar believes such publication is impractical or unlikely to reach a 
substantial number of the holders of the Bonds, in some other financial newspaper or journal which regularly 
carries notices of redemption of other obligations similar to the Bonds, such publication to be made at least 
thirty (30) days prior to the date fixed for redemption. 
 
Upon the payment of the redemption price of the Bonds (or portions thereof) being redeemed and if so directed by the 
Consolidated City, each check or other transfer of funds issued for such purpose shall bear the CUSIP number identifying, 
by issue and maturity, the Bonds (or portions thereof) being redeemed with the proceeds of such check or other transfer. 
 
At the option of the successful bidder for any series of the Bonds (or, at the option of the Bond Bank, with respect to any 
series of the Bonds sold to the Bond Bank), all or a portion of such series of the Bonds may be aggregated into one or 
more term bonds payable from mandatory sinking fund redemption payments (the "Term Bonds") required to be made 
as set forth below.  The Term Bonds shall have a stated maturity or maturities on January 15 and/or July 15 of the years 
determined by the successful bidder or the Bond Bank. 
 
In the event that the successful bidder or the Bond Bank opts to aggregate certain Bonds into Term Bonds, such Term 
Bonds shall be subject to mandatory sinking fund redemption prior to maturity at a redemption price equal to one hundred 
percent (100%) of the principal amount thereof, plus accrued interest to the redemption date, but without premium, on 
January 15 and/or July 15 of each year and in the principal amount corresponding to and consistent with the maturity 
schedule for the Bonds set forth in the Controller's Certificate.

=== 2021-09-13 minutes, page 14 of 102 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 18 
The Registrar and Paying Agent shall credit against the current mandatory sinking fund requirement for a Term Bond of 
a particular maturity, any Bonds of such maturity delivered to the Registrar and  Paying Agent for cancellation or 
purchased for cancellation by the Registrar and Paying Agent and canceled by the Registrar and Paying Agent and not 
theretofore applied as a credit against any mandatory sinking fund requirement.  Each Bond so delivered or  purchased 
shall be credited by the Registrar and Paying Agent at one hundred percent (100%) of the principal amount thereof against 
the mandatory sinking fund redemption requirements for the applicable Term Bond in order of mandatory sinking fund 
redemption (or final maturity) dates determined by the Consolidated City, and the principal amount of such Term Bond 
to be redeemed on such mandatory sinking fund re demption dates by operation of the mandatory sinking fund 
requirements shall be reduced accordingly ; provided, however, the Registrar and Paying Agent shall only credit Bonds 
against the mandatory sinking fund requirements to the extent such Bonds are received on or before forty-five (45) days 
preceding the applicable mandatory sinking fund redemption date. 
 
The Registrar shall determine by lot (treating each Five Thousand Dollars ($5,000) of principal amount of each Bond as 
a separate Bond for such purpose) the Bonds within a Term Bond of a particular maturity to be redeemed pursuant to the 
mandatory sinking fund redemption requirements on January 15 and/or July 15 of each year. 
 
Notice of any such mandatory sinking fund redemption shall be given in the same manner as notice of optional redemption 
is required to be given pursuant to this Section 4.  If Bonds are to be redeemed by optional redemption and mandatory 
sinking fund redemption on the same date, the Registrar shall select by lot the Bonds for optional redemption before 
selecting the Bonds by lot for the mandatory sinking fund redemption. 
 
In the event any of the Bonds are issued as Term Bonds, the form of the Bond set forth in Section 7 of this Ordinance 
shall be modified accordingly. 
 
Any reference to payment of principal on the Bonds shall include payment of scheduled mandatory sinking fund 
redemption payments described in this Section 4. 
 
SECTION 5.  A registrar and paying agent for the Bonds (the "Registrar" and the "Paying Agent," and in both suc h 
capacities, the "Registrar and Paying Agent") shall be appointed by the Controller, with such appointment to be reflected 
in the Controller's Certificate.  The Registrar and Paying Agent shall be charged with and shall by appropriate agreement 
undertake the performance of all of the duties and responsibilities customarily associated with each such position, 
including, without limitation, the authentication of the Bonds.  The Controller is further authorized and directed to enter 
into such agreements and u nderstandings with the Registrar and Paying Agent as will enable and facilitate the 
performance of its duties and responsibilities in conformance with the t erms of this Ordinance, and is authorized to pay 
such fees as the Registrar and Paying Agent may reasonably charge for its services in such capacity, with such fees to be 
paid from available funds of the Consolidated City.  In the event the Bonds are regis tered in the name of any purchaser 
that does not object to such designation, the Controller is hereb y authorized to serve as Registrar and Paying Agent for 
the Bonds. 
 
The Registrar and Paying Agent, if not the Controller, may at any time resign as Registr ar and Paying Agent by giving 
thirty (30) days' written notice to the Controller and by first-class mail to each registered owner of Bonds then outstanding, 
and such resignation will take effect at the end of such thirty (30) days or upon the earlier appoi ntment of a successor 
Registrar and Paying Agent by the Controller.  Such notice to the Controller may also be served personally or be sent by 
registered mail.  The Registrar and Paying Agent may also be removed at any time as Registrar and Paying Agent by the 
Controller, in which event the Controller may appoint a successor Registrar and Paying Agent.  The Controller shall 
notify each registered owner of Bonds then outstanding by first -class mail of the removal of the Registrar and Paying 
Agent.  Notices to registered owners of Bonds shall be deemed to be given when mailed by first-class mail to the addresses 
of such registered owners as they appear on the registration books kept by the Registrar and Paying Agent.  Any 
predecessor Registrar and Paying Agent  shall deliver all of the Bonds and cash in its possession with respect thereto, 
together with the registration books, to the successor Registrar and Paying Agent.  The Controller is hereby authorized 
to act on behalf of the Consolidated City relating to the resignation or removal of the Registrar and Paying Agent and 
appointment of a successor Registrar and Paying Agent. 
 
The principal of and premium, if any, on the Bonds shall be payable at the principal office of the Registrar and Paying 
Agent for the Bonds.  Interest on the Bonds shall be paid by check or draft mailed or delivered one (1) business day prior 
to such payment date to the registered owner thereof at the address as it appears on the registration books kept by the 
Registrar and Paying Agent as of the last day of the calendar month immediately preceding the interest payment date or 
at such other address as is provided to the Registrar and Paying Agent in writing by such registered owner.  If payment 
of principal or interest is made to a Clearing Agency (as hereinafter defined), payment shall be made by wire transfer on 
the payment date in same-day funds.  If the payment date occurs on a date when financial institutions are not open for 
business, the wire transfer shall be made on the next succeed ing business day.  The Paying Agent shall be instructed to 
wire transfer payments so that such payments are received by the Clearing Agency by 2:30 p.m. (New York City time).

=== 2021-09-13 minutes, page 15 of 102 ===
September 13, 2021 
 
 19  
All payments on the Bonds shall be made in any coin or currency of the United States of America which, on the dates of 
such payments, shall be legal tender for the payment of public and private debts. 
 
The Bonds shall bear an original date which shall be the first day of the calendar month in which the Bonds are to be 
delivered (or the date of delivery of the Bonds if so designated by the Controller in the Controller's Certificate) (the 
"Original Date"), and each Bond shall also bear the date of its authentication.  Bonds authenticated on or before the last 
day of the calendar month immediately preceding the first interest payment date shall be paid interest from the Original 
Date.  Bonds authenticated after the last day of the calendar month immediately preceding the first interest payment date 
shall be paid interest from the interest payment date immediately preceding the date of authentication of such Bonds 
unless the Bonds are authenticated between the last day of the calendar month immediately preceding an interest payment 
date and the interest payment date, in which case interest thereon shall be paid from such interest payment date. 
 
The Bonds may, in compliance with all applicable laws, be issued and held in book-entry form on the books of the central 
depository system, The Depository Trust Company, its successors, or any successor central depository system appointed 
by the Consolidated City from time to time (the "Clearing Agency").  The Consolidated City and the Registrar may, in 
connection therewith, do or perform or cause to be done or performed any acts or things not adverse t o the rights of the 
holders of the Bonds, as are necessary or appropriate to accomplish or recognize such book-entry form Bonds. 
 
During any time that the Bonds are held in book-entry form on the books of a Clearing Agency (a)  any such Bond may 
be register ed upon the books kept by the Registrar in the name of such Clearing Agency, or any nominee thereof,  
including Cede & Co., as nominee of The Depository Trust Company; (b)  the Clearing Agency in whose name such 
Bond is so registered shall be, and the Consol idated City and the Registrar and Paying Agent may deem and treat such 
Clearing Agency as, the absolute owner and holder of such Bond for all purposes of this Ordinance, including, without 
limitation, the receiving of payment of the principal of and premium, if any, and interest on such Bond, the receiving of 
notice, and the giving of consent; (c)  neither the Consolidated City nor the Registrar or Paying Agent shall have any 
responsibility or obligation hereunder to any direct or indirect participant, withi n the meaning of Section  17A of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, of such Clearing Agency, or any person on behalf of which, or otherwise 
in respect of which, any such participant holds any interest in any Bond, including, without limitation, any responsibility 
or obligation hereunder to maintain accurate records of any interest in any Bon d or any responsibility or obligation 
hereunder with respect to the receiving of payment of principal of or premium, if any, or interest on any Bonds, the 
receiving of notice, or the giving of consent; (d) the Clearing Agency is not required to present any Bond called for partial 
redemption prior to receiving payment so long as the Registrar and Paying Agent and the Clearing Agency have agreed 
to the method for noting such partial redemption; and (e) payment of the principal of and interest on the Bonds may be  
made by wire transfer or other method acceptable to the Clearing Agency, as indicated in the Controller's Certificate. 
 
If either (i) the Consolidated City receives notice from the Clearing Agency which is currently the registered owner of 
the Bonds t o the effect that such Clearing Agency is unable or unwilling to discharge its responsibility as a Clearing 
Agency for the Bonds or (ii)  the Consolidated City elects to discontinue its use of such Clearing Agency as a Clearing 
Agency for the Bonds, then the Consolidated City and the Registrar and Paying Agent each shall do or perform or cause 
to be done or performed all acts or things, not advers e to the rights of the holders of the Bonds, as are necessary or 
appropriate to discontinue use of such Clearing Agency as a Clearing Agency for the Bonds and to transfer the ownership 
of each of the Bonds to such person or persons, including any other Cle aring Agency, as the holder of the Bonds may 
direct in accordance with this Ordinance.  Any expenses of such disc ontinuance and transfer, including expenses of 
printing new certificates to evidence the Bonds, shall be paid by the Consolidated City. 
 
During any time that the Bonds are held in book-entry form on the books of a Clearing Agency, the Registrar and Paying 
Agent shall be entitled to request and rely upon a certificate or other written representation from the Clearing Agency or 
any participant or i ndirect participant with respect to the identity of any beneficial owners of the Bonds as of a record 
date selected by the Registrar and Paying Agent.  For purposes of determining whether the consent, advice, direction or 
demand of a registered owner of the Bond has been obtained, the Registrar or Paying Agent shall be entitled to treat the 
beneficial owners of the Bonds as the Bondholders. 
 
During any time that the Bonds are held in book-entry form on the books of a Clearing Agency, the Controller is 
authorized to enter into a Letter of Representations agreement with the Clearing Agency, and the provisions of any such 
Letter of Representations or any successor agreement shall control on the matters set forth herein. 
 
Each Bond shall be transferable or exchangeable only upon the books of the Consolidated City kept for that purpose at 
the principal office of the Registrar and Paying Agent, by the registered owner thereof in person, or by his attorney duly 
authorized in writing, upon surrender of such Bond together with a written instrument of transfer or exchange satisfactory 
to the Registrar and Paying Agent duly execut ed by the registered owner or his attorney duly authorized in writing, and 
thereupon a new fully registered Bond or Bonds in the same aggregate  principal amount and of the same maturity shall 
be executed and delivered in the name of the transferee or trans ferees or the registered owner, as the case may be, in

=== 2021-09-13 minutes, page 16 of 102 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 20 
exchange therefor.  The Registrar and Paying Agent shall not be obligated to make any exchange or transfer of Bonds 
following the last day of the calendar month immediately preceding an interest paymen t date on the Bonds until such 
interest payment date.  Bonds may be transferred or exchanged without cost to the registered owner, except for a ny tax 
or governmental charge required to be paid with respect to the transfer or exchange.  The Consolidated Cit y and the 
Registrar and Paying Agent may treat and consider the person in whose name such Bonds are registered as the absolute 
owner thereof for all purposes including for the purpose of receiving payment of, or on account of, the principal thereof 
and interest due thereon. 
 
In the event any Bond is mutilated, lost, stolen or destroyed, the Consolidated City may execute and the Registrar and 
Paying Agent may authenticate a new Bond of like date, maturity and denomination as that mutilated, lost, stolen or 
destroyed, which new Bond shall be marked in a manner to distinguish it from the Bond for which it was issued; provided, 
that in the case of any  mutilated Bond, such mutilated Bond shall first be surrendered to the Consolidated City and the 
Registrar and Paying Agent, and in the case of any lost, stolen or destroyed Bond there shall be first furnished to the 
Consolidated City and the Registrar and Paying Agent evidence of such loss, theft or destruction satisfactory to the 
Consolidated City and the Registrar  and Paying Agent, together with indemnity satisfactory to them.  In the event any 
such lost, stolen or destroyed Bond shall have matured, inst ead of issuing a duplicate Bond, the Consolidated City and 
the Registrar and Paying Agent may, upon receiving indemnity satisfactory to them, pay the same without surrender 
thereof.  The Consolidated City and the Registrar and Paying Agent may charge the owner of such Bond with their 
reasonable fees and expenses in connection with the above.  Every substitute Bond is sued by reason of any Bond being 
lost, stolen or destroyed shall, with respect to such Bond, constitute a substitute contractual obligation of the Consolidated 
City, whether or not the lost, stolen or destroyed Bond shall be found at any time, and shall be entitled to all the benefits 
of this Ordinance, equally and proportionately with any and all other Bonds duly issued hereunder. 
 
SECTION 6.  The Bonds shall be executed in the name of the Consolidated City by the manual or facsimile signature of 
the Mayor of the Consolidated City (the "Mayor"), countersigned by the manual or facsimile signature of the Controller, 
and attested by the manual or facsimile signature of the Clerk of the Consolidated City, who shall cause the official seal 
of the Consolidated Ci ty to be impressed or a facsimile thereof to be printed or otherwise reproduced on each of the 
Bonds.  Subject to the provisions hereof for registration, the Bonds shall be negotiable under the laws of the State of 
Indiana. 
 
The Bonds shall be authenticated with the manual signature of an authorized representative of the Registrar and Paying 
Agent, and no Bond shall be valid or obligatory for any  purpose or be entitled to any security or benefit under this 
Ordinance until the Certificate of Authentication on such Bond shall have been so executed. 
 
SECTION 7.  The form and tenor of the Bonds shall be substantially as follows (all blanks to be properly completed prior 
to the preparation of the Bonds): 
 
[Form of Bond] 
 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
 
STATE OF INDIANA COUNTY OF MARION 
 
No. 21__R-___ $________________ 
 
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS, INDIANA, 
GENERAL OBLIGATION BOND, SERIES 2021__ 
 
Interest 
Rate 
 
Maturity 
Date 
 
Original 
Date 
 
Authentication 
Date 
 
 
[CUSIP] 
 
     
 
Registered Owner: 
 
Principal Sum: 
 
The City of Indianapolis and the County of Marion, in the State of Indiana (together, the "Consolidated City"), 
for value received, hereby acknowledges itself indebted and promises to pay to the Registered Owner stated above, or 
registered assigns, the Principal Sum stated above, on the Maturity Date stated above, and to pay interest on said Principal 
Sum to the Registered Owner of this bond until the Consolidated City's obligation with respect to the payment of said 
Principal Sum shall be discharged, at the rate per ann um specified above from the interest payment date immediately

=== 2021-09-13 minutes, page 17 of 102 ===
September 13, 2021 
 
 21  
preceding the date of the authentication of this bond, unless t his bond is authenticated on or before __________ ___, 
202__, in which case the interest shall be paid from the Original Date stated above or unless this bond is authenticated 
between the last day of the calendar month immediately preceding an interest pay ment date and the interest payment 
date, in which case interest shall be paid from such interest payment date.  Interest shall be payable on [__________ 15, 
202__], and semiannually thereafter on January 15 and July 15 of each year.  Interest shall be calculated on the basis of 
twelve (12) thirty (30)-day months for a three hundred sixty (360)-day year. 
 
The principal of and premium, if any, on this bond is payable at the principal office of ________________, in 
_____________________, Indiana, as Registrar and Paying Agent (which term shall include any successor registrar and 
paying agent) (the "Registrar and Paying Agent").  Interest on this bond shall be paid by check or draft mailed or delivered 
one (1) business day prior to such payment date to the Regis tered Owner hereof at the address as it appears on the 
registration books kept by the Registrar and Paying Agent as of the last day of the calendar month immediately preceding 
the interest payment date or at such other address as is provided to the Registr ar and Paying Agent in writing by the 
Registered Owner.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if payment of principal or interest is made  to a depository, payment 
shall be made by wire transfer on the payment date in same-day funds.  All payments on this bond shall be made in coin 
or currency of the United States of America which, on the dates of such payments, shall be legal tender for the  payment 
of public and private debts.  Subject to the provisions of the Ordinance (hereinafter defined) for registration, this bond is 
negotiable under the laws of the State of Indiana. 
 
This bond is payable from an ad valorem property tax to be levied upon all of the taxable property located 
within the Consolidated City. 
 
This bond is one of an authorized issue of bonds of the Consolidated City in the aggregate principal amount of 
____________________________________ Dollars ($____________), numbered conse cutively from 21__R -1 
upwards, issued pursuant to an ordinance (Ordinance No.  ________) (the "Ordinance") adopted by the City-County 
Council of the City of Indianapolis, Indiana and of Marion County, Indiana on __________ ___, 2021, to procure funds 
to be applied to the costs of acquisition, construction, installation and equipping of a new fire station and a new solid 
waste gar age, together with expenses incidental thereto, including capitalized interest on the bonds through 
___________ ___, 20___ and all expenses incurred in connection with or on account of the issuance of the bonds therefor.  
Reference is hereby made to the Ordinance for a description of the nature and extent of the rights, duties and obligations 
of the owners of the bonds and the Consolidated City and the terms on which this bond is issued, and to all the provisions 
of such Ordinance to which the holder hereof by the acceptance of this bond assents. 
 
The bonds maturing in any one year are issuable only in fully registered form in denomina tions of 
____________________ Dollars ($__________) or integral multiples thereof not exceeding the aggregate principal 
amount of the bonds maturing in such year. 
 
[The bonds of this issue maturing on or after __________ 1, 20___ are subject to redemption prior to maturity, 
at the option of the Consolidated City, in whole or in part, on __________ 1, 20___, or at any time thereafter, in amounts 
and maturities determined by the Controller and by lot within any such maturity or maturities at a redemption pric e of 
__________________________, plus accrued interest to the redemption date.] 
 
[Notice of any such redemption shall be sent by first class mail to the Registered Owner of this bond not more 
than sixty (60) and not less than thirty (30) days prior to the date fixed for redemption, unless such notice is waived by 
the Registered Owner; provided, however, that failure to give such notice by mailing, or any defect therein, with respect 
to any such bond will not affect the validity of any proceedings for redemption of any other such bonds.  The notice shall 
specify the redemption price, the date and place of redemption, and the regis tration numbers (and in case of partial 
redemption, the respective principal amounts) of the bonds called for redemption.  Interest  on bonds so called for 
redemption shall cease to accrue on the redemption date fixed in such notice, so long as sufficient f unds are available at 
the place of redemption to pay the redemption price on the redemption date or when presented for payment.] 
 
[Prior to the date fixed for redemption, funds shall be deposited with the Paying Agent to pay, and the Paying 
Agent is hereby  authorized and directed to apply such funds to the payment of the bonds or portions thereof called, 
together with accrued interest thereon to the redemption date and any required premium.  No payment shall be made by 
the Paying Agent upon any bond or port ion thereof called for redemption until such bond shall have been delivered for 
payment or cancellation or the Registrar shall have received the items required by the Ordinance with respect to any 
mutilated, lost, stolen or destroyed bond.] 
 
If this bond or a portion hereof shall have become due and payable in accordance with its terms or shall have 
been duly called for redemption or irrevocable instructions to call the bonds or a portion thereof for redemption shall 
have been given, and the whole amount of the principal of and premium, if any, and interest so due and payable upon all 
of this bond or a portion hereof then outstanding s hall be paid or (i)  sufficient moneys, or (ii)  direct obligations of, or

=== 2021-09-13 minutes, page 18 of 102 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 22 
obligations the principal of and interest on which a re unconditionally guaranteed by, the United States of America, the 
principal of and the interest on which when due will provide sufficient moneys for such purpose, or (iii) time certificates 
of deposit fully secured as to both principal and interest by obligations of the kind described in (ii) above of a bank or 
banks the principal of and interest on which when due will provide suffi cient moneys for such purpose, shall be held in 
trust for such purpose, and provision shall also have been made for paying al l fees and expenses in connection with the 
redemption, then and in that case this bond or such portion hereof shall no longer be de emed outstanding or an 
indebtedness of the Consolidated City. 
 
This bond is transferable or exchangeable only upon the books of the Consolidated City kept for that purpose 
at the principal office of the Registrar and Paying Agent by the Registered Owner he reof in person, or by his attorney 
duly authorized in writing, upon surrender of this bond together with a written instrument  of transfer or exchange 
satisfactory to the Registrar and Paying Agent duly executed by the Registered Owner or his attorney duly authorized in 
writing, and thereupon a new fully registered bond or bonds in the same aggregate principal amount and of the s ame 
maturity shall be executed and delivered in the name of the transferee or transferees or the Registered Owner, as the case 
may be, in exchange therefor.  This bond may be transferred or exchanged without cost to the Registered Owner, except 
for any tax or governmental charge required to be paid with respect to the transfer or exchange.  The Registrar and Paying 
Agent shall not be required to make any transfer or exchange of this bond following the last day of the calendar month 
immediately preceding an interest payment date on this bond until such interest payment date.  The Consolidated City 
and the Registrar and Paying Agent may treat and consider the person in whose name this bond is registered as the 
absolute owner hereof for all purposes including for the purpose of receiving payment of, or on account of, the principal 
hereof and interest due hereon. 
 
In the event this bond is mutilated, lost, stolen or destroyed, the Consolidated City may execute and the 
Registrar and Paying Agent may authenticate a new bond of like date, maturity and denomination as this bond, which 
new bond shall be marked in a manner to distinguish it from t his bond; provided, that in the case of this bond being 
mutilated, this bond shall first be surrendered to the Consolidated C ity and the Registrar and Paying Agent, and in the 
case of this bond being lost, stolen or destroyed, there shall first be furnishe d to the Consolidated City and the Registrar 
and Paying Agent evidence of such loss, theft or destruction satisfactory to the  Consolidated City and the Registrar and 
Paying Agent, together with indemnity satisfactory to them.  In the event that this bond, being lost, stolen or destroyed, 
shall have matured, instead of issuing a duplicate bond, the Consolidated City and the Regis trar and Paying Agent may, 
upon receiving indemnity satisfactory to them, pay this bond without surrender hereof.  The Consolidated City and the 
Registrar and Paying Agent may charge the owner of this bond with their reasonable fees and expenses in connect ion 
with the above.  Every substitute bond issued by reason of this bond being lost, stolen or destroyed shall, with respect to 
this bond, constitute a substitute contractual obligation of the Consolidated City, whether or not this bond, being lost, 
stolen or destroyed shall be found at any time, and shall be entitled to all the benefits of the Ordinance, equally and 
proportionately with any and all other bonds duly issued thereunder. 
 
In the manner provided in the Ordinance, the Ordinance and the rights and obligations of the Consolidated City 
and of the owners of the bonds may (with certain exceptions as stated in the Ordinance) be m odified or amended with 
the consent of the owners of at least a majority in aggregate principal amount of outstanding bonds e xclusive of bonds, 
if any, owned by the Consolidated City. 
 
The Registrar and Paying Agent may at any time resign as Registrar and Paying Agent by giving thirty (30) 
days' written notice to the Consolidated City and by first -class mail to the registered owners of bonds then outstanding, 
and such resignation will take effect at the end of such thirty (30) days or upon the earlier appoi ntment of a successor 
Registrar and Paying Agent by the Consolidated City.  Such notice to the Consolidated City may also be served personally 
or be sent by registered mail.  The Registrar and Paying Agent may also be removed at any time as Registrar and Paying 
Agent by the Consolidated City, in which event the Consolidated City may appoint a successor Registrar and Paying 
Agent.  The Consolidated City shall cause the Registered Owner of this bond, if then outstanding, to be notified by first-
class mail of the removal of the Registrar and Paying Agent.  Notices to registered owners of bonds shall be deemed to 
be given when mailed  by first-class mail to the addresses of such registered owners as they appear in the registration 
books kept by the Registrar and Paying Agent. 
 
It is hereby certified and recited that all acts, conditions and things required by law and the Constitution of the 
State of Indiana to be done precedent to and in the execution, issuance, sale and delivery of this bond have been properly 
done, happened and performed in regular and due form as prescribed by law, and that the total indebtedness of the 
Consolidated City, including the bonds of this issue, does not exceed any constitutional or statutory limitation of 
indebtedness. 
 
This bond shall not be valid or become obligatory for any purpose or be entitled to any security or benefit under 
the Ordinance authorizing this bond until the certificate of authentication hereon shall have been duly executed by an 
authorized representative of the Registrar and Paying Agent.

=== 2021-09-13 minutes, page 19 of 102 ===
September 13, 2021 
 
 23  
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the City of Indianapolis, Indiana and Marion County, Indiana have caused this 
bond to be executed in the name of said Consolidated City, by the manual or facsimile signature of the Mayor of said 
City, countersigned by the manual or facsimile signature of the Controller of said Consolidated City, and attested by the 
manual or facsimile signature of the Clerk of said Consolidated City, who has caused the official corporate seal of said 
Consolidated City to be impressed or a facsimile thereof to be printed or otherwise reproduced hereon. 
 
CONSOLIDATED CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS, INDIANA 
By:  
Mayor 
Countersigned: 
By:  
Controller 
(Seal) 
ATTEST: 
  
Clerk 
 
REGISTRAR'S CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION 
 
This bond is one of the bonds described in the within-mentioned Ordinance. 
 , 
as Registrar and Paying Agent 
By:  
Authorized Representative 
 
ASSIGNMENT 
For value received, the undersigned hereby sells, assigns and transfers unto 
________________________________________________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________________________________________ 
(Insert name and address of transferee) 
this bond and all rights hereunder and hereby irrevocably constitutes and appoints 
_______________________________________, attorney, to transfer this bond on the books kept for the  registration 
hereof with full power of substitution in the premises. 
Date: ______________________ 
 
  
NOTICE:  Signature(s) must be guaranteed by an 
eligible gu arantor institution participating in a 
Securities Transfer Association recognized signature 
guarantee program. 
 
   
NOTICE: The signature to this assignment must 
correspond with the name of the Registered Owner 
as it appears on the front of this bond in eve ry 
particular, without alteration or enlargement or any 
change whatsoever. 
[End of Bond Form] 
SECTION 8.   
 
(a)  Public Sale .  The Controller may, in such officer's discretion based upon the advice of the Consolidated City's 
financial advisor, sell any series of the Bonds by public sale, in which event the provisions of this Section 8(a) shall apply 
to such public sale.  Prior to the sale of the Bonds, the Controller shall cause to be published a notice of intent to sell 
once each week for two (2) weeks in  the Indianapolis Star and in the Indianapolis Business Journal , a newspaper of 
general circulation published in the City of Indianapolis, Indiana.  The notice of such sale or a summary thereof may 
also be published in The Bond Buyer, a financial journal published in the City and State of New York, and/or in other 
publications in the discretion of the Controller.  The notice must state that any person interested in submitting a bid for 
the Bonds may furnish in writing at the address set forth in the notice, the person's name, address and telephone number, 
and that any such person may also furnish a telex number.  The notice must also state:  (i) the amount of the Bonds to be 
offered; (ii) the denominations; (iii) the dates of maturity; (iv) the maximum rate or rates of interest; (v) the place of sale; 
(vi) the time within which the name, address and telephone number must be furnished, which must not be less than seven 
(7) days after the last publication of the notice of intent to sell; and (vii) such other matters as the Controller shall deem 
appropriate.  Such notice shall provide, among other things, that each bid shall be accompanied by a certified cashier's 
check or a financial surety bond from an insurance company authorized to do business in the State of  Indiana in an 
amount equal to one percent (1%) of the principal amount of the Bonds to guarantee performance on the part of the 
bidder; that if the Bonds are awarded to a bidder who has submitted a financial surety bond to the Consolidated City, 
then such bidder must submit the required amount of the good faith deposit to the Consolidated Cit y in the form of a

=== 2021-09-13 minutes, page 20 of 102 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 24 
certified or cashier's check (or a wire transfer consisting of immediately available funds to the Consolidated City as 
instructed by the Consolidated City) not later than 3:30 p.m. (local time) on the next business day following the awar d 
by the Consolidated City; that if such check or wire transfer is not received by that time, the financial surety bond may 
be drawn upon by the Consolidated City to s atisfy the deposit requirements; and that in the event the successful bidder 
shall fail or refuse to accept delivery of and pay for the Bonds as soon as the Bonds are ready for delivery, or at the time 
fixed in the notice, then said amount shall become the  property of the Consolidated City and shall be considered as the 
Consolidated City's liquidated damages on account of such default.  Each person so registered shall be notified of the 
date and time bids will be received, not less than twenty-four (24) hours before the date and time of sale.  The notification 
shall be made by telephone at the number furnished by the person, and also by telex if the person furnishes a telex number. 
 
All bids for Bonds shall be sealed and shall be presented to the Controller at the Controller's office, and the Controller 
shall continue to receive all bids offered until the hour named on the day fixed for the sale of the Bonds, at which time 
and place the Controller shall open and consider each bid.  Bidders for the Bonds shall  be required to name the rate or 
rates of interest which the Bonds are to bear, no t exceeding the maximum rate hereinabove fixed.  The interest rate or 
rates shall be in multiples of one-eighth (1/8) or one-hundredth (1/100) of one percent (1%).  Bids specifying more than 
one interest rate shall also specify the amount and maturities of  the Bonds bearing each rate, and all Bonds maturing on 
the same date shall bear the same rate of interest.  The interest rate on Bonds of a given maturity must be at least as great 
as the interest rate on Bonds of any earlier maturity.  Subject to provisi ons contained below, the Controller shall award 
the Bonds to the bidder offering the lowest interest cost, to be determined by computing the total interest on all of the 
Bonds from the date thereof to the date of their maturities and deducting therefrom th e premium bid, if any, or adding 
thereto the amount of the discount, if any.  No bid for less than ninety-seven percent (97.0%) of the par value of the 
Bonds (or such higher percentage of the par value of the Bonds as the Controller, with the advice of the financial advisor 
to the Consolidated City, shall determine prior to publication of the notice of intent to sell, as reflected in the Controller's 
Certificate), plus accrued interest at the rate or rates named to the date of delivery, shall be considered.   The Controller 
shall have full right to reject any and all bids.  In the event no acceptable bid is received at the time fixed for the sale of 
the Bonds, then the sale may be continued from day to day for a period not to exceed thirty (30) days without 
readvertising.  During the continuation of the sale, no bid shall be accepted which offers an interest cost which is equal 
to or higher than the best bid received at the time fixed for the sale. 
 
The Controller is hereby authorized to determine, in such off icer's discretion, to sell the Bonds pursuant to the general 
provisions of Indiana Code  5-1-11 (rather than Section  2(b) thereof), and in the event of such a determination, t hose 
portions of this Section 8 which conflict with such provisions shall be deemed inapplicable. 
 
(b)  Sale to the Bond Bank.  The Bonds may, in the discretion of the Controller based upon the advice of the Consolidated 
City's financial advisor, be sold to the Bond Bank, with a maximum discount of three percent (3%) of the par amount of 
the Bonds.  In the event of such determination, Bonds shall be sold to the Bond Bank in such denomination or 
denominations as the Bond Bank may request, and pursuant to a p urchase agreement (the "Purchase Agreement") 
between the Consolidated City and the Bond Bank, hereby authorized to be entered into and executed by the Mayor on 
behalf of the Consolidated City, and attested by the Controller, subsequent to the date of the adoption of this Ordinance.  
Such Purchase Agreement may set forth the defi nitive terms and conditions for such sale, but all of such terms and 
conditions must be consistent with the terms and conditions of this Ordinance, including, without limitation, the interest 
rate or rates on the Bonds which shall not exceed the maximum rate of interest for the Bonds authorized pursuant to this 
Ordinance.  Bonds sold to the Bond Bank shall be accompanied by all documentation required by the Bond Bank pursuant 
to the provisions of Indiana Code 5-1.4 and the Purchase Agreement, including, without limitation, an approving opinion 
of nationally recognized bond counsel, certification and guarantee of signatures and certification as to no litigation 
pending, as of the date of delivery of the Bonds to the Bond Bank, challenging the validity or issuance of the Bonds.  In 
the event the Controller determines to sell the Bonds to the Bond Bank, the entry by the Consolidated City into the 
Purchase Agreement, and the execution and delivery of the Purchase Agreement on behalf of the Consolidated City by 
the Mayor in accordance with this Ordinance are hereby authorized and approved. 
 
(c)  Legal Opinion; Credit Enhancement.  Prior to the delivery of the Bonds, the Controller shall be authorized to obtain 
a legal opinion as to the validity of the Bonds from Faegre Drinker Biddle & Reath LLP, bond counsel, of Indianapolis, 
Indiana, and to furnish such opinion to the purchaser or purchasers of the Bonds.  The cost of such opinion shall be 
considered as part of the costs incidental to these proceedings and shall be paid out of proceeds of the Bonds. 
 
If the financial advisor of the Consolidated City certifies to the Consolidated City that it would be economically 
advantageous for the Consolidated City to acquire a municipal bond insurance policy or other credit enhancement for the 
Bonds, the Consolidated City hereby authorizes the Mayor and the Controller to take all such actions as may be necessary 
or appropriate to obtain such an insurance p olicy or other credit enhancement.  The acquisition of a municipal bond 
insurance policy or other credit enhancement is hereby deemed economically advantageous if the difference between the 
present value cost of (a) the total debt service on the Bonds if i ssued without municipal bond insurance or other credit 
enhancement and (b)  the total debt service on the Bonds if issued with municipal bond insurance or other credit

=== 2021-09-13 minutes, page 21 of 102 ===
September 13, 2021 
 
 25  
enhancement, is greater than the cost of the premium on the municipal bond insurance policy or cost of such other credit 
enhancement.  If deemed economically advan tageous as described in this paragraph, the cost of the premium for such 
municipal bond insurance policy or cost of such other credit enhancement shall be deemed as a proper cost of issuance 
of the Bonds.  The Mayor and the Controller, with the advice of t he financial advisor for the Consolidated City, are 
further authorized to take such actions as may be necessary or appropriate to procure a credit rating or ratings on the 
Bonds from one or more nationally recognized securities rating agencies. 
 
SECTION 9.   The Consolidated City hereby authorizes and directs the Mayor, the Controller, the Clerk of the 
Consolidated City and the members and officers of the Consolidated City, and each of  them, to execute and deliver any 
and all other instruments, letters, certificates, agreements and documents as the official executing the same determines is 
necessary or appropriate to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Ordinance, and such d etermination shall 
be conclusively evidenced by the execution thereof.  The instruments, letters, certificates, agreements and documents, 
including the Bonds, necessary or appropriate to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Ordinance shall, 
upon execution, as contemplated herein, constitute the valid and binding obligations or representations and warranties of 
the Consolidated City, the full performance and satisfaction of which by the Consolidated City is hereby authorized and 
directed. 
 
SECTION 10.  The Mayor is hereby authorized to execute the Bonds with his manual  or facsimile signature, the 
Controller is hereby authorized and directed to have such Bonds prepared and to countersign such Bonds, and the Clerk 
of the Consolidated City is hereby authorized to attest the Bonds with such officer's manual or facsimile sig nature and 
cause the seal of the Consolidated City to be impressed or a facsimile thereof to be printed or otherwise reproduced on 
the Bonds, all in the form and manner herein provided.  In case any officer whose signature appears on the Bonds shall 
cease to hold that office before the delivery of the Bonds, the signature shall nevertheless be valid and sufficient for all 
purposes, the same as if such officer had remained in office un til the delivery of the Bonds.  After the Bonds have been 
properly executed, the Controller shall deliver the Bonds to the purchaser or purchasers in the manner provided by law.  
Upon delivery of the Bonds, the accrued interest, if any, on the Bonds received at the time of such delivery shall be 
deposited in the City of Indianap olis, Indiana, Bond Fund (the "Bond Fund"), and the portion of the proceeds of the 
Bonds representing capitalized interest, if any, shall be deposited in a Capitalized Interest Account.   
 
SECTION 11.  The Consolidated City agrees to levy to the extent necessary after giving effect to the provisions of this 
Section 11, in each calendar year, an ad valorem property tax upon all of the taxable property located within the 
Consolidated City in a total amount sufficient to pay the principal of and interest on the Bonds in the twelve (12)-month 
period commencing on July 15 of the following calendar year.  In order to establish a levy and collect such a tax, the 
Consolidated City shall develo p a budget in August of each year to submit to the Indiana Department of L ocal 
Government Finance (or to any successor thereof) for approval of a tax rate to apply in the following year.  Tax 
distributions received by the Consolidated City in that following year on or about June  30 and December  31 shall be 
deposited into the Bon d Fund and, to the extent necessary, shall be used to pay the following respective July 15 and 
January 15 debt service payments on the Bonds. 
 
SECTION 12.  In order to preserve the excludability from gross income of interest on the Bonds under federal law and 
as an inducement to the purchasers of the Bonds, the Consolidated City represents, covenants and agrees that, to the 
extent necessary to preserve such excludability: 
 
(a)  The Consolidated City shall satisfy either subparagraph (i) or (ii) of this Section 12(a) (or both). 
 
No person or entity or any combination thereof, other than the Consolidated City or any other governmental 
unit ("Governmental Unit") within the meaning of Section 141(b)(6) and Section 150(a)(2) of the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986, as amended and as in effect on the date of delivery of the Bonds (the "Code"), 
will use more than ten percent (10%) of the proceeds of the Bonds or property financed by said proceeds 
other than as a member of the general public.  Not more than five percent (5%) of the proceeds of the 
Bonds are to be used (i)  for any private business use that is unrelated to the governmental use of the 
proceeds or (ii) for a related private business use that is disproportionate to the governmental use of such 
proceeds within the meaning of Section 141(b)(3)(B) of the Code.  No person or entity or any combination 
thereof, other than the Consolidated City or another Governmental Unit, will own property fi nanced by 
more than ten percent (10%) of the Bond proceeds or will have actual or beneficial use of more than ten 
percent (10%) of such property pursuant to a lease, a management or incentive payment contract, an 
arrangement such as a take-or-pay or other type of output contract or any other type of arrangement that 
differentiates that person's or entity's use of such property from the use by the public at large of such 
property, except pursuant to a management or similar contract which satisfies the requir ements of IRS 
Revenue Procedure 97-13. 
 
Not more than ten percent (10%) of the principal of or interest on the Bonds (under the terms of the Bonds, this

=== 2021-09-13 minutes, page 22 of 102 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 26 
Ordinance or any underlying arrangement) is secured, directly or indirectly, by an interest in property used 
or to be used for any private business use or payments in respect of such property or to be derived from 
payments (whether or not to the Consolidated City) in respect of such property or borrowed money used 
or to be used for a private business use. 
 
(b) No Bond proceeds will be loaned to any entity or person.  No Bon d proceeds will be transferred directly, or 
indirectly transferred or deemed transferred, to a person other than a Governmental Unit in a fashion that 
would in substance constitute a loan of said Bond proceeds. 
 
(c) The Consolidated City will not take any action or fail to take any action with respect to the Bonds that would 
result in the loss of the excludability from gross income for federal tax purposes of interest on the Bonds 
pursuant to Section 103(a) of the Code, nor will the Consolidated City act in any manner or permit any actions 
by officers or officials of the Consolidated City that would in any manner adversely affect such excludability.  
The Consolidated City further covenants t hat it will not make any investment or do any other act or thing  
during the period that any Bond is outstanding hereunder which would cause any Bond to be an "arbitrage 
bond" within the meaning of Section 148 of the Code and the regulations applicable thereto as in effect on the 
date of delivery of the Bonds.  The Cons olidated City shall comply with the arbitrage rebate requirements 
under Section 148 of the Code to the extent applicable. 
 
(d) All officers, members, employees and agents of the Consolidated C ity are authorized and directed to provide 
certifications of facts and estimates that are material to the reasonable expectations of the Consolidated City 
as of the date the Bonds are issued and to enter into covenants on behalf of the Consolidated City ev idencing 
the Consolidated City's commitments made herein.  In particular, all or any officers, members, employees and 
agents of the Consolidated City are authorized to certify and/or enter into covenants for the Consolidated City 
regarding the facts and ci rcumstances and reasonable expectations of the Consolidated City  on the date the 
Bonds are issued and the commitments made by the Consolidated City herein regarding the amount and use of 
the proceeds of the Bonds. 
 
SECTION 13.  Notwithstanding any other pr ovisions of this Ordinance, the covenants and authorizations contained in 
this Ordinance (the "Tax Sections") which are designed to preserve the excludability of interest on the Bonds from gross 
income under federal law (the "Tax Exemption") need not be complied with if the Consolidated City receives an opinion 
of nationally recognized bond counsel that any Tax Section is unnecessary to preserve the Tax Exemption.  In addition, 
the Consolidated City is authorized to issue one or more series of Bonds, the interest on which is not excludable from 
gross income under federal law, in which case the Tax Sections of this Ordinance shall not apply to such series of Bonds. 
 
SECTION 14.  If, when the Bonds or a portion thereof shall have become due and payable in accordance with their terms 
or shall have been duly called for redem ption or irrevocable instructions to call the Bonds or a portion thereof for 
redemption shall have been given, and the whole amount of the principal of and premium, if any, and interest so due and 
payable upon all of the Bonds or a portion thereof then out standing shall be paid or (i)  sufficient moneys, or (ii) direct 
obligations of, or obligations the principal of and interest on which are unconditionally guaranteed by, the United States 
of America, the principal of and the interest on which when due will provide sufficient moneys for such purpose, or 
(iii) time certificates of deposit fully secured as to both principal and interest by obligations of the kind described in (ii) 
above of a bank or banks the principal of and interest on which when due will provide sufficient moneys for such purpose, 
shall be held in trust for such purpose, and provision shall also have been made for paying all fees and expenses in 
connection with the redemption, then and in that case the Bonds or such portion thereof issued hereunder shall no longer 
be deemed outstanding or an indebtedness of the Consolidated City. 
 
SECTION 15.  If any section, paragraph or provision of this Ordinance shall be held to be invalid or unenforceable for 
any reason, the invalidity or unenforceability of such section, paragraph or provision shall not affect any of the remaining 
provisions of this Ordinance. 
 
SECTION 16.  All resolutions and orders, or parts thereof, in conflict with the pr ovisions of this Ordinance, are, to the 
extent of such conflict, hereby repealed, and this Ordinance shall be in immediate effect from and after its adoption. 
 
SECTION 17.  If the date for making any payment or the last date for performance of any act or t he exercising of any 
right, as provided in this Ordinance, shall be a legal holiday or a day on which banking institutions in the city or town in 
which the Registrar and Paying Agent is located are typically closed, such payment may be made or act performed or 
right exercised on the next succeeding day not a legal holiday or a day on which such banking institutions are typically 
closed, with the same force and effect as if done on the nominal date provided in this Ordinance, and no interest shall 
accrue for the period after such nominal date.

=== 2021-09-13 minutes, page 23 of 102 ===
September 13, 2021 
 
 27  
 
SECTION 18.  The City-County Council may, without the consent of, or notice to, any of the owners of the Bonds, adopt 
a supplemental ordinance for any one or more of the following purposes: 
 
a) To cure any ambiguity or formal defect or omission in this Ordinance; 
 
b) To grant to or confer upon the owners of the Bonds any additional benefits, rights, remedies, powers, authority 
or security that may lawfully be granted to or conferred upon the owners of the Bonds, or to make any change 
which, in the judgment of the Consolidated City, is not to the prejudice of the owners of the Bonds; 
 
c) To modify, amend or supplement this Ordinance to permit  the qualification of the Bonds for sale under the 
securities laws of the United States of America or of any of the states of the United States of America; 
 
d) To provide for the refunding or advance refunding of the Bonds; 
 
e) To procure a rating on the Bonds f rom a nationally recognized securities rating agency designated in such 
supplemental ordinance, if such supplemental ordinance will not adversely affect the owners of the Bonds; and 
 
f) Any other purpose which in the judgment of the Consolidated City does not  adversely impact the interests of 
the owners of the Bonds. 
 
SECTION 19.  This Ordinance, and the rights and obligations of the Consolidated City and the owners of the Bonds may 
be modified or amended at any time by supplemental ordinances adopted by the C ity-County Council with the consent 
of the owners of the Bonds holding at least a majority in aggregate principal amount of the outstanding Bonds (exclusive 
of Bonds, if any, owned by the Consolidated City); provided, however, that no such modification or amendment shall, 
without the express consent of the owners of the Bonds affected, reduce  the principal amount of any Bond, reduce the 
redemption premium, if any, or interest rate payable thereon, advance the earliest redemption date, extend its maturity or 
mandatory sinking fund redemption or the times for paying interest thereon, permit a pr ivilege or priority of any Bond 
or Bonds over any other Bond or Bonds, create a lien securing any Bonds other than a lien ratably securing all of the 
Bonds outstanding,  or change the monetary medium in which principal and interest are payable, nor shall an y such 
modification or amendment reduce the percentage of consent required for amendment or modification. 
 
Any act done pursuant to a modification or amendment so consented to shall be binding upon all the owners of the Bonds 
and shall not be deemed an infringement of any of the provisions of this Ordinance, and may be done and performed as 
fully and freely as if expressly permitted by the terms of this Ordinance, and after such consent relating to such specified 
matters has been given, no owner shall have any right or interest to object to such action or in any manner to question the 
propriety thereof or to enjoin or restrain the Consolidated City or any officer the reof from taking any action pursuant 
thereto. 
 
If the Consolidated City shall desire to obtai n any such consent, it shall cause the Registrar and Paying Agent to mail a 
notice, postage prepaid, to the respective owners of the Bonds at their addresses appearing on the registration books held 
by the Registrar and Paying Agent.  Such notice shall briefly set forth the nature of the proposed supplemental ordinance 
and shall state that a copy thereof is on file at the office of the Registrar and Paying Agent for  inspection by all owners 
of the Bonds.  The Registrar and Paying Agent shall not, however, be subject to any liability to any owners of the Bonds 
by reason of its failure to mail the notice described in this Section 19, and any such failure shall not affect the validity of 
such supplemental ordinance when consented to and approved as provided in this Section 19. 
 
Whenever at any time after the date of the mailing of such notice, the Consolidated City shall receive an instrument or 
instruments purporting to be executed by the owners of the Bonds of not less than a majority in aggregate principal 
amount of the Bonds then outstanding (exclusive of Bonds, if any, owned by the Consolidated City), which instrument 
or instruments shall refer to the proposed supplemental ordinance described in such notice, and shall specifically consent 
to and approve the adoption thereof in substantially the form of the copy thereof referred to in such notice as on file with 
the Registrar and Paying Agent, thereupon, but not otherw ise, the Consolidated City may adopt such supplemental 
ordinance in substantially such form, without liability or responsibility to any owners of the Bonds, whether or not such 
owner shall have consented thereto. 
 
Upon the adoption of any supplemental ordinance pursuant to the provisions of this Section 19, this Ordinance shall be, 
and be deemed t o be, modified and amended in accordance therewith, and the respective rights, duties and obligations 
under this Ordinance shall thereafter be determined, exercised and enforced hereunder, subject in all respects to such 
modifications and amendments. 
 
Notwithstanding anything contained in this Ordinance to the contrary, the rights and obligations of the Consolidated City

=== 2021-09-13 minutes, page 24 of 102 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 28 
and of the owners of the Bonds authorized by this Ordinance, and the terms and provisions of the Bonds and this 
Ordinance, or any supplemental or amendatory ordinance, may be modified or altered in any respect with the consent of 
the Consolidated City and the consent of the owners of all the Bonds then outstanding. 
 
SECTION 20.  The Controller shall, prior to the sale of each series of the Bonds, set forth in a certificate (the "Controller's 
Certificate") the amount and maturities of such series of the Bonds, the first interest payment date of such series of the 
Bonds, the perce ntage of par at which such series of the Bonds shall be sold and all other matters required by this 
Ordinance to be provided in the Controller's Certificate. 
 
SECTION 21.  The Bonds may, based upon the advice of the financial advisor for the Consolidated City, be offered and 
sold pursuant to an Official Statement with r espect to the Bonds (the "Official Statement"), to be made available and 
distributed in such manner, at such times, for such periods and in such number of copies as may be required pursuant t o 
Rule 15c2-12 promulgated by the United States Securities and Ex change Commission (the "Rule") and any and all 
applicable rules and regulations of the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board.  The Consolidated City hereby authorizes 
the Controller (a) to authorize and approve a Preliminary Official Statement, as the same may be appropriately confirmed, 
modified and amended, for distribution as the Preliminary Official Statement of the Consolidated City; (b)  on behalf of 
the Consolidated City, to designate and deem the Preliminary Official Statement a "final" Official Statement with respect 
to the Bonds, subject to completion as permitted by and otherwise pursuant to the Rule; and (c) to authorize and approve 
the Preliminary Official Statement to be placed into final form and to enter into such agreements or arrangements as may 
be necessary or advisable in order to provide for the distribution of a sufficient number of copies of the Official Statement 
under the Rule.  The Mayor is further authorized to execute an agreement in connection with the offering of the Bonds 
in accordance with the Rule by which the Consolidated City agrees to undertake such continuing disclosure obligations 
as may be required under the Rule. 
 
SECTION 22.  The proceeds derived from the s ale of the Bonds heretofore authorized to be issued and all inves tment 
earnings thereon shall be and the same are hereby appropriated to provide financing for all or a portion of the Projects, 
together with expenses incurred in connection therewith, including capitalized interest, if any, and the costs of the 
issuance of the Bonds, all of which is not provided for in the existing budget and tax levy.   Such appropriation shall be 
in addition to all appropriations provided for in the existing budget and levy and shall continue in effect until the 
completion of the activities described above.  Any surplus of such proceeds (including investment earnings thereon) shall 
be credited to the proper fund as provided by law.   The Controller shall be, and hereby is, aut horized and directed to 
certify a copy of this Ordinance together  with such other proceedings and actions as may be necessary to the Indiana 
Department of Local Government Finance. 
 
SECTION 23.  The City -County Council hereby authorizes and ratifies the pu blication (and posting, as applicable) in 
accordance with Indiana law of (a) the notice of public hearing on the preliminary determination to issue the Bonds, (b) 
the notice of public hearing regarding the proposed additional appropriation of the proceeds of the Bonds, and (c) the 
notice of the decision to issue bonds in excess of Five Thousand Dollars ($5,000) pursuant to Indiana Code 6-1.1-20-5. 
 
SECTION 24.  The City-County Council hereby declares that it reasonably expects to reimburse with the proceeds of the 
Bonds expenditures for the Projects made by the Consolidated City prior to the issuance of the Bonds during the period 
beginning on the date sixty (60) days prior to the date of this Ordinance until the date of issuance of the Bonds, which 
expenditures are expected to be paid initially from other legally availab le funds of the Consolidated City.   The City-
County Council hereby declares that this Ordinance is being adopted for purposes of evidencing compliance with Indiana 
Code 5-1-14-6 and Section 1.150-2 of the Treasury Regulations. 
 
SECTION 25.  This Ordinance shall be in full force and effect from and after its adoption and compliance with Indiana 
Code 36-3-4-14. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 253, 2021.  Councillor Mascari reported that the Administration and Finance 
Committee heard Proposal No. 253 , 2021 on August 24, 2021.  The proposa l, sponsored by  
Councillor Mascari, authorizes the City to execute cer tain leases with the Indianapolis- Marion 
County Building Authority for the Coroner Project and Circle City Forward Proje cts, including 
forensics crime lab, new juvenile justice facility, animal care shelter, Frederick Douglass Park 
family center and playground projects.  By an 11-0 vote, the Committee reported the proposal to 
the Council with the recommendation that it do pass.   
 
Councillor E. Evans asked why no new voices have been included in the planning and outreach for 
the juvenile justice center, with  community meetings.  Sarah Riordan, Executive Director,

=== 2021-09-13 minutes, page 25 of 102 ===
September 13, 2021 
 
 29  
Indianapolis Municipal Bond Bank, stated that this would be better answered by the ex ecutive 
committee of the Marion Superior Court, but she does know that they met with many community 
groups in that  area, as well as ju venile justice reform stakeholders, and have do ne a s ignificant 
number of outreach and events to garner as much input as possible, but planning continues for the 
project and nothing is set in stone yet.   
 
Councillor Larrison said that he asked the same quest ion and got the same answers.  He said that 
they are meeting with various youth groups, as well as neighborhood groups, and others interested 
in justice reform, but the next step is design, and there will be many more conversations.   
 
Councillor Evans said that he is glad to see them finally making a move for a new juvenile justice 
center, as that has been outdated for many years.  He added that the community center at Douglass 
Park is also greatly appreciated. 
 
Councillor Hart said that the current facility is greatly out-of-date, but there has been an increase 
in drug-related deaths at the facility.  He said that he is conflicted about this proposal, and feels 
they could save dollars for program use and rehab the old facility.  He said that there needs to be 
more effort concentrated on drug and substance abuse programs.  He added that he will support 
the proposal, as they cannot divide out the juvenile justice center portion, but he hopes to see 
more programs address that problem in the future.   
 
President Osili called for public testimony at 7:51 p.m. 
 
Mr. Vaughn said that he  is glad to see the juvenile justice center change, but money was 
appropriated 20 years ago to fix the Douglass Park community center, but now residents have been 
driven out of that area.  The city should have protected home owners against pre dators who are 
taking advantage, and it is sicken ing to see the city spending money on the projects tha t are most 
profitable at the time.   
 
Gary Moody, citizen, said that he  objects to the plan for the relocation of Animal Care.  He said 
that this is seven acres of mixed use and residential development, is densely populated and a high 
crime ara.  He said that the location did not come before the advisory committee. 
 
Councillor E. Evans asked to abstain due to lack of sufficient information.  Consent was given. 
 
Seeing no further testimony, Councillor Mascari moved, seconded by Councillor Adamson, for 
adoption.  Proposal No. 253, 2021 was adopted on the following roll call vote; viz: 
 
23 YEAS: Adamson, Bain, Barth, Boots, Brown, Carlino, Dilk, Evans -J, Graves, Gray, Hart, 
Jackson, Jones, Larrison, Lewis, Mascari, McCormick, Mowery, Oliver, Osili, P otts, Ray, 
Robinson 
0 NAYS:  
1 NOT VOTING: Evans-E 
1 ABSENT: Annee 
 
Proposal No. 253, 2021 was retitled SPECIAL ORDINANCE NO. 9, 2021, and reads as follows: 
 
CITY-COUNTY SPECIAL ORDINANCE NO. 9, 2021 
 
A SPECIAL ORDINANCE  approving the execution of certain leases with the  Indianapolis-Marion County Building 
Authority, establishing certain funds and accounts related to such lease, and other related matters.

=== 2021-09-13 minutes, page 26 of 102 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 30 
WHEREAS, the Indianapolis -Marion County Building Authority (the "Building Authority") has been created  
pursuant to Indiana Code  36-9-13, as amended, an independent municipal corporation for the purpose of, among othe r 
things, financing government buildings and systems for lease to "eligible entities" (as such term is defined in Indiana 
Code 36-9-13-1, as amended) within Marion County, Indiana; and 
 
WHEREAS, the Consolidated City of Indianapolis, Indiana, as such term is defined in Indiana Code 36-3 -1-4 (the 
"City") and Marion County, Indiana, as established in Indiana Code 36-2-1-1 (the "County"), are eligible entities pursuant 
to Indiana Code 36-9-13-1, as amended; and 
 
WHEREAS, the Building Authority intends to issue  a series of bonds pursuant to Indiana Code  36-9-13-30, as 
amended, to be known as the "Indianapolis -Marion County Building Authority Lease Re ntal Revenue Bonds, Series 
2021A (Coroner Project)" (or such other series designation as determined by the Building Authority) (the "Series 2021A 
Bonds"), the proceeds of which are to be used to finance the acquisition, construction, installation and equip ping of a  
coroner's facility, as more particularly described in Exhibit A  attached hereto (the "Coroner Project"), together with 
expenses incurred in connection therewith, including capitalized interest, if necessary, the funding of a debt service 
reserve, if necessary, and the costs of the issuance of the Series 2021A Bonds therefor; and 
 
WHEREAS, the Building Authority intends to issue a series of bonds pursuant to Indiana Code  36-9-13-30, as 
amended, to be known as the "Indianapolis -Marion County Buildin g Authority Lease Rental Revenue Bonds, Series 
2022A (Circle City Forward Project)" (or such other series designation as determined by the Building Authority) (the 
"Series 2022A Bonds," and together with the Series 2021A Bonds, the "Bonds"), the proceeds of which are to be used to 
finance the acquisition, construction, installation and equipping of the Circle City Forward Projects, as more particularly 
described and defined in Exhibit B attached hereto (collectively, the "Circle City Forward Projects," and together with 
the Coroner Project, the "Projects"), together with expenses incurred in connection therewith, including capitalized 
interest, if necessary, the funding of a debt service reserve, if necessary, and the costs of the issuance of the Series 2022A 
Bonds therefor; and 
 
WHEREAS, the Building Authority intends to lease (a) the Coroner Project to the County pursuant to a lease to be 
dated on or after the date of final adoption of th is Resolution, as the same may be hereafter amended from time to time 
(the "2021A Lease"), and (b) the Circle City Forward Projects to the City and/or the County pursuant to a lease (which 
may be one lease or multiple separate leases) to be dated on or aft er the date of final adoption of this Resolution, as the 
same may be hereafter amended from time to time (collectively, the "2022A Lease," and together with the 2021A Lease, 
the "Leases"), the forms of which Leases are attached hereto in substantially final form and are being approved by this 
Resolution; and 
 
WHEREAS, notices of public hearings on the proposed Leases were given by publication in the Indianapolis Star  
and the Indianapolis Business Journal, and said hearings have been held in accordance with said notices; and 
 
WHEREAS, there is attached to this Resolution and presented to the City-County Council of the City of Indianapolis 
and of Marion County, Indiana (the "City-County Council")  at this meeting a substantially final form of the Leases; and 
 
WHEREAS, the City -County Council has determined that  the lease rental payments due under the 2021A Lease 
attributable to the Coroner Project (the "Coroner Project Rental Payments") shall be payable from an ad valorem property 
tax to be levied on all taxable property located within the boundaries of the County; and 
 
WHEREAS, the City-County Council hereby finds that the Coroner Project is an independently desirable end in 
itself without reference to the Circle City Forward Projects or any other project of the County and will not cost the County 
more than Sixteen Million Seven Hundred Thousand Dollars ($16,700,000); and 
 
WHEREAS, Indiana Code 6-1.1-20-3.1 requires that the City-County Council conduct two public hearings for the 
purpose of receiving public input prior to considering the adoption of a resolution making a preliminary determination to 
enter into a lease with the Building Authority for purposes of financing of the Coroner Project, together with expenses 
incurred in connection therewith, including ca pitalized interest, if necessary, the funding of a debt service reserv e, if 
necessary, and the costs of the issuance of the Series 2021A Bonds therefor, and notice of the hearings was published in 
the Indianapolis Star and the Indianapolis Business Journal as required by law, and copies of such notice was also mailed 
to the Marion County Circuit Court Clerk as required by Indiana Code 6-1.1-20-3.1; and 
 
WHEREAS, the City-County Council (or committees thereof) has held two public hearings in accordance with the 
provisions of Indiana Code 6-1.1-20-3.1(b)(1) and has received public input concerning the Coroner Project; and

=== 2021-09-13 minutes, page 27 of 102 ===
September 13, 2021 
 
 31  
WHEREAS, the County has previously acted to impose a county option income tax on the adjusted gross income 
of County taxpayers pursuant to Indiana Code 6-3.5-6, which law has been repealed and codified at Indi ana Code 6-3.6 
for the purpose of consolidating the provisions related to various local income tax laws; and 
 
WHEREAS, the City-County Council has determined to pledge the City’s and County’s distributive shares of public 
safety and certified shares compon ents of the County local income tax revenues pursuant to Indiana Code 6- 3.6-6, as 
amended (the "LIT Revenues"), to the lease rental payments due under the 2022A Lease attributable to the Circle City 
Forward Projects (the "Circle City Forward Projects Rental Payments"); and 
 
WHEREAS, the City-County Council has concluded, following the public hearings described above, that the Circle 
City Forward Projects are necessary and desirable and will be of general benefit to the residents of the City and the 
County, separate and apart from the Coroner Project; and 
 
WHEREAS, the City -County Council has concluded, following the public hearings described above, that the 
Coroner Project is itself necessary and desirable and will be of general benefit to the residents of t he County, separate 
and apart from the Circle City Forward Projects; and 
 
WHEREAS, the Projects and the entering into the Leases with the Building Authority for purposes of financing the 
Projects, together with expenses incurred in connection therewith, including capitalized interest, if necessary, the funding 
of a debt service reserve, if necessary, and the costs  of the issuance of the Bonds therefor , are necessary and will be of 
general benefit to the City and the County and their taxpayers; and 
 
WHEREAS, the City and the County do not have sufficient funds available or provided for in the existing budgets 
or tax levies that may be applied to the costs of the Projects, together with expenses incurred in connection therewith, 
including capitalized interest, if necessary, the funding of a debt service reserve, if necessary, and the costs of the issuance 
of the Bonds  therefor, making it necessary for the City and/or the County to enter into the Leases with the Building 
Authority to provide for the financing of the Projects; and 
 
WHEREAS, pursuant to Resolution No. 20, 2018, adopted by the City-County Council on November 19, 2018, the 
City and the County have previously pledged the LIT Revenues to the payment of lease rentals pursuant to a Lease dated 
as of April 1, 2019, among the City, the County and the Building Authority, as amended (as amended, the "2019 Lease"), 
which lease rentals are used to pay bonds designated "Indianapolis -Marion County Building Authority Lease Rental 
Revenue Bonds, Series 2019A (Jail and Courthouse Project)," currently outstanding in the aggregate principal amount of 
Six Hundred Ten Million Six Hundred Forty-Five Thousand Dollars ($610,645,000) with a final maturity date of January 
15, 2054; and 
 
WHEREAS, it is necessary for the City and the County to (i)  establish certain funds and accounts for the payment 
of the rentals owed by the City and the County pursuant to the Leases, (ii)  covenant to levy an ad valorem property tax 
to make all required Coroner Project Rental Payments due under the 2021A Lease, and (iii) pledge the LIT Revenues to 
be received by the City and the County to make the Circle City Forward Projects Rental Payments due under the 2022A 
Lease, on a parity with the pledge of the LIT Revenues to the payment of the lease rentals due under the 2019 Lease; and 
 
WHEREAS, certain preliminary expenses related to the Projects have been or will be incurred by the City or the 
County, as applicable, or on the City's or the County's behalf, prior to the issuance and delivery of the re spective series 
of the Bonds; and 
 
WHEREAS, the City-County Council desires to express its intention to reimburse such expenditures as have been 
or may be incurred prior to the issuance of the Bonds, pursuant to Indiana Code  5-1-14-6 and in compliance with  
Section 1.150-2 of the U.S. Treasury Regulations promulgated by the Internal Revenue Service (the "Treasury 
Regulations"); now, therefore: 
 
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE 
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA: 
 
SECTION 1. .A need exists for the Projects and the funds needed therefor exceed the funds presently available to the 
City and the County. 
 
SECTION 2. .The City-County Council hereby makes and confirms the findings described in the preambles to this 
Resolution.

=== 2021-09-13 minutes, page 28 of 102 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 32 
SECTION 3. .Each of the proposed Leases with the Building Authority, as lessor, provides for a fair and reasonable 
basis for determining the lease rentals thereunder, and, further, the execution of the Leases is necessary and in the best 
interests of the City and/or the County. 
 
SECTION 4. .The Clerk of the City-County Council is authorized and directed to initial and date a copy of the form 
of the proposed Leases and to place the same in the minute book of the City-County Council immediately following the 
minutes of this meeting, and the Leases are made a part of this Resolution as fully as if it were set forth herein.  One copy 
of the Leases shall be kept on file for public inspection at the office of the Clerk of the City-County Council. 
 
SECTION 5. .As soon as can be done after the passage of this Resolution, the L eases, in substantially the form 
submitted to the City-County Council at this meeting, shall be executed by the Mayor, as executive of the City and/or the 
County (the "Mayor"), and attested by the Clerk of the City -County Council (the "Clerk") and/or the A uditor of the 
County (the "Auditor"), and one or more notices of the approval of the Leases under Indiana Code 36- 9-13-28 shall be 
published according to law.  The Mayor is authorized to approve such modifications to the substantially final form of the 
Leases as the Mayor deems necessary and appropriate prior to the execution of the Leases, with the execution of the 
Leases by the Mayor, as conclusive evidence of the Mayor's approval thereof. 
 
SECTION 6. .The term of the lease of the Coroner Project under the 2021A Lease shall not exceed twenty (20) years, 
commencing on the date the Coroner Project is completed and ready for occupancy, and the maximum annual Coroner 
Project Rental Payments  due under the 2021A Lease shall not exceed One Million Two Hundred Thousand Dolla rs 
($1,200,000).  The term of the lease of the Circle City Forward Projects under the 2022A Lease shall not exceed forty 
(40) years, commencing on the date the Circle City Forward Projects are completed and ready for occupancy, and the 
maximum annual Circl e Cit y Forward Projects Rental Payments  due under the 2022A Lease shall not exceed Nine 
Million Eight Hundred Thousand Dollars ($9,800,000), 
 
SECTION 7. .The City -County Council hereby authorizes the City and/or the County to enter into one or more 
agreements with the Building Authority, or such other entity or entities as deemed advisable, to provide for any of the 
operations, maintenance and management of the Projects. 
 
SECTION 8. .The preliminary drawings, plans, specifications and cost estimates for the Projects shall be submitted to 
the City and the County and approved by the Mayor prior to the execution of the respective Leases, and such plans and 
specifications shall be submitted to the various governmental agencies as required by law upon their final approval by 
the Mayor. 
 
SECTION 9. .There is hereby created and established a Bond Fund to consist of a Series 2021A Lease Payment 
Account (the "Series 2021A Lease Payment Account") and a Series 2022A Lease Payment Account (the "Series 2022A 
Lease Payment Account") and such other accounts as the City and/or the County shall from time to time establish.  From 
the Series 2021A Lease Payment Account, all required Coroner Project Rental Payments  due under the 2021A Lease 
shall be made by the County to the Building Authority.  From the Series 2022A  Lease Payment Account, all required 
Circle City Forward Projects Rental Payments due under the 2022A Lease shall be made by the City and the County, as 
applicable, to the Building Authority. 
 
SECTION 10. .The Circle City Forward Projects Rental Payments  to be pa id from the Series 2022A Lease Payment 
Account under the 2022A Lease shall be payable from the LIT Revenues, on a parity with the pledge of the LIT Revenues 
to the payment of the lease rentals due under the 2019 Lease.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, in lieu of paying the Circle 
City Forward Projects Rental Payments to the Building Authority, the City and the County may agree to deposit with the 
corporate trustee for the Series 2022A Bonds, funds to meet the City's and the County's Circle City Forward Proje cts 
Rental Payment obligations. 
 
SECTION 11. The City and the County, in consideration of the lease of the Circle City Forward Projects, in order to 
secure the payment of rentals due thereunder and the performance and observance of the covenants thereunder, hereby 
pledges to the Building Authority, and the holders of the Series 2022A Bonds, the LIT Revenues received by the City 
and the County, along with any investment earnings thereon, such pledge to be effective as set forth in Indiana 
Code 5-1-14-4 without filing or recording of the 2022A Lease, this Resolution or any other instrument; provided, that 
the pledge of LIT Revenues to the payment of the Circle City Forward Projects Rental Payments due under  the 2022A 
Lease shall rank on a parity with the pledge of the LIT Revenues to the payment of the lease rentals due under the 2019 
Lease.  The pledge of LIT Revenues shall be effective only to the extent and for the term that the City and the County 
are obligated to make Circle City Forward Projects Rental Payments under the 2022A Lease.  The obligation of the City 
and the County to make Circle City Forward Projects Rental Payments under the 2022A Lease is limited to LIT Revenues, 
and investment earnings thereon, and shall not be considered a debt of the City or the Count y for purposes of the 
Constitution or laws of the State of Indiana.

=== 2021-09-13 minutes, page 29 of 102 ===
September 13, 2021 
 
 33  
SECTION 12. The City and the County reserve the right to authorize and issue bonds, enter into leases or incur other 
obligations entitled to the pledge of LIT Revenues, in whole or in part, or any combination thereof, and otherwise pledge 
the City’s and the County’s LI T Revenues to secure bonds, lease rental payments or other obligations, for any legally 
authorized purpose, or to refund any Parity Obligations, ranking on a parity with the pledge of the LIT Revenues to the 
payment of the Circle City Forward Projects Rental Payments due under the 2022A Lease (such additional bonds, lease 
rental payments or other obligations, the "Parity Obligations").  The authorization and issuance of Parity Obligations  
shall be subject to the following conditions precedent: 
 
(a) All Circle C ity Forward Projects Rental Payments  due under the Lease and all payments on any 
outstanding Parity Obligations (including the 2019 Lease) payable from LIT Revenues shall be current to date 
in accordance with the terms thereof, with no payment in arrears. 
 
(b) The City and the County shall have received a certificate prepared by a certified public accountant, 
financial advisor or feasibility consultant certifying that the amount of the LIT Revenues received in any twelve 
(12) consecutive month period within the prior eighteen (18) calendar months immediately preceding the date 
of issuance of the Parity Obligations proposed to be issued shall be at least equal to three hundred percent 
(300%) of the combined maximum annual debt service and lease rental requirement s of (i) the Circle City 
Forward Projects Rental Payments due under the 2022A Lease, (ii) all then outstanding Parity Obligations 
(including the 2019 Lease), and (iii) the Parity Obligat ions proposed to be issued, for each respective year, 
during the remaining term of the 2022A Lease. 
 
(c) Payments of any Parity Obligations payable from the LIT Revenues shall be payable on dates consistent 
with the lease rental payment dates of the 2022A Lease of the Circle City Forward Projects. 
 
SECTION 13. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the City and the County may issue obligations payable from LIT 
Revenues on a junior and subordinate basis to the pledge of LIT Revenues to the payment of the Circle City Forward 
Projects Rental Payments due under the Lease.  However, any such junior and subordinate obligations payable from 
LIT Revenues shall be payable on dates consistent with the lease rental payment dates of the 2022A Lease of the Circle 
City Forward Projects. 
 
SECTION 14. For purposes of providing additional security for the Series 2022A Bonds or otherwise further securing 
the pledge of the LIT Revenues to the payment of the Circle City Forward Projects Rental Payments due under the 2022A 
Lease, the Mayor and the Controller of the City (the "Controller") are specifically authorized by the City-County Council 
to enter into a revenue deposit or pledge agreement (or an amendment to the existing revenue deposit agreement relating 
to the LIT Revenues) providing for the direct deposit of  LIT Revenues and/or any other legally available revenues with 
a deposit trustee into a segregated account and/or containing such other terms as the Mayor and the Controller may 
determine to be necessary or desirable to carry out the provisions of this Resolution.  
 
SECTION 15. The City -County Council authorizes the Mayor, the Controll er and the Auditor to create separate, 
segregated funds or accounts, from legally available funds of the City and/or County, to provide for a debt service reserve 
for the payment of lease rentals, the payment of operations and maintenance for the Projects, and for life-cycle repair and 
replacement costs for the Projects.  Upon issuance of the Series 2022A Bonds, the Mayor, the Controller and the Auditor 
are authorized to transfer funds from a debt service reserve fund or account created pursuant to this Res olution to the 
trustee for the Series 2022A Bonds, after such appropriation by the City-County Council in 2022 (or the year of issuance 
of the Series 2022A Bonds) of an amount not exceedi ng the maximum annual debt service due on the Series 2022A 
Bonds, as required by applicable law. 
 
SECTION 16. CORONER PROJECT:  The City-County Council hereby determines that this Resolution shall constitute 
the preliminary determination of the County required by Indiana Code 6-1.1-20-3.1(b) to enter into a lease to provide for 
the fin ancing of the Coroner Project, together with expenses incurred in connection therewith, including capitalized 
interest, if necessary, the funding of a debt service reserve, if necessary, and the costs of the issuance of the Series 2021A 
Bonds therefor. 
 
SECTION 17. CORONER PROJECT:  The City -County Council hereby authorizes and directs the Controller of the 
Consolidated City and/or the Auditor, in conjunction with counsel to give such notice as requir ed by the provisions of 
Indiana Code 6-1.1-20-3.1(b)(2) and (b)(3) of the preliminary determination to enter into the 2021A Lease for purposes 
of financing the costs of the Coroner Project.   
 
SECTION 18. CORONER PROJECT:  The County shall levy in each calendar year b eginning in the year prior to the 
first calendar year in which the County is required to pay Coroner Project Rental Payments due under the 2021A Lease, 
an ad valorem property tax upon all of the taxable property located within the boundaries of the County, in a total amount 
sufficient, together with all other funds in the S eries 2021A Lease Payment Account deposited into such account from

=== 2021-09-13 minutes, page 30 of 102 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 34 
any other sources (other than such property taxes) during the previous twelve (12) months prior to August 1 of such 
calendar year, to pay all Coroner Project Rental Payments due under the Coroner Lease in the twelve (12)-month period 
beginning on July 1 of the following calendar year. 
 
SECTION 19. The County, in consideration of the lease of the Coroner Project, in order to secure the payment of 
rentals due thereunder and the performance and observance of the covenants thereunder, hereby pledges to the Building 
Authority, and the holders of the Series 2021A Bonds, the ad valorem property tax revenues described in this Section 
received by the County, along with any investment earnings thereon, such pledge to be effective as set forth in Indiana 
Code 5-1-14-4 without filing or recording of the Lease, this Resolution or any other instrument.  The pledge of such ad 
valorem property tax revenues shall be effective only to the extent and for the term that the County is obligated to make 
the Coroner Project Rental Payments under the Lease.  The obligation of the County to make Coroner Project Rental 
Payments under the Lease is limited to such ad valorem property tax revenues, and investment earnings thereon, and 
shall not be considered a debt of the City or County for purposes of the Constitution or laws of the State of Indiana. 
 
SECTION 20. Actions with respect to the Projects required to be undertaken by officials of the City and/or County 
under applicable law performed by designees or agents of such officials are hereby ratified. 
 
SECTION 21. The Mayor, the Controller, the Clerk, the Auditor and any other City or County official as may be 
necessary are, and each of them is, hereby authorized to take all such actions and to execute or attest all such instruments 
as are necessary and desirable to carry out the transactions contemplated by this Resolution, including, without limitation, 
one or more addenda to the Leases r educing lease rentals based on the results of the sale o f the Bonds, one or more 
continuing disclosure undertaking agreements, one or more letters of representations to the underwriters regarding a bond 
purchase agreement, and one or more preliminary official statements or official statements, in such forms as the Mayor, 
the Controller, the Clerk, the Auditor, and any other City or County official executing or attesting the same shall deem 
proper, to be evidenced by the execution or attestation thereof. 
 
SECTION 22. The City-County Council hereby declares that it reasonably  expects to reimburse with the proceeds of 
the Bonds expenditures for the Projects made by the City or the County prior to the issuance of the Bonds during the 
period beginning on the date sixty (60) days prior to the date of this Resolution until the date  of issuance of the Bonds, 
which expenditures are expected to be paid initially from other legally available funds of the City or the County.  The 
City-County Council hereby declares that this Resolut ion is being adopted for purposes of evidencing compliance with 
Indiana Code 5-1-14-6 and Section 1.150-2 of the Treasury Regulations. 
 
SECTION 23. The City -County Council agrees not to rescind this Resolution for so long as any of the Bonds are 
outstanding.  The City-County Council further agrees not  to amend this Resolution in any manner that will affect or 
impair any of the rights of the holders of any outstanding Bonds. 
 
SECTION 24. This Ordinance shall be in full force and effect after its adoption by the City -County Council and 
compliance with Indiana Code 36-3-4-14, Indiana Code 36-3-4-15 and Indiana Code 36-3-4-16. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 255, 2021.  Councillor Robinson reported that the Public Safety and Criminal 
Justice Committee heard Proposal No. 255, 2021 on August 11, 2021.  The proposal, sponsored by 
Councillor Robinson, Adamson, McCormick, Boots, approves an additional appropriation totaling 
$2,595,000 in the 2021 Budget of the Indianapolis Fire Department (City Federal Grants Fund) in 
characters one, two, three, and four, for  the purpose of funding expenses incurred during the 
deployments of Indiana Task Force One as part of the National Urban Search & Rescue Response 
System Response Cooperative Agreement.  By a 12-0 vote, the Committee reported the proposal 
to the Council with the recommendation that it do pass.   
 
President Osili called for public testimony at 7:58 p.m. 
 
Mr. Vaughn said that grants are still tax dollars, and it is nice to help others, but the city could use 
these dollars for their own people and those situations are attended to by FEMA.  Sending our own 
people without the added funds to support their trip is coming straight out of every taxpayers ’ 
pocket.

=== 2021-09-13 minutes, page 31 of 102 ===
September 13, 2021 
 
 35  
Hank Harris, president of L ocal Firefighters Union 416, recognized task force members in 
attendance and asked everyone to remember those who have lost their lives on depl oyments and 
due to the World Trade Center tragedy on 9-11.   
 
Councillors Oliver, McCormick and Boots stated that they are proud of the Indiana Task Force 
One, and hope the city never has an event where they have to call others to come help, but know 
that there are others like them that will.   
 
Seeing no further testimony, Councillor Robinson moved, seconded by Councillor Carlino, for 
adoption.  Proposal No. 255, 2021 was adopted on the following roll call vote; viz: 
 
24 YEAS: Adamson, Bain, Barth, Boots, Brown, Carlino, Dilk, Evans-E, Evans-J, Graves, Gray, 
Hart, Jackson, Jones, Larrison, Lewis, Mascari, McCormick, Mowery, Oliver, Osili, Potts, Ray, 
Robinson 
0 NAYS:  
1 ABSENT: Annee 
 
Proposal No. 255, 2021 was retitled FISCAL ORDINANCE NO. 19, 2021, and reads as follows: 
 
CITY-COUNTY FISCAL ORDINANCE NO. 19, 2021 
 
A FISCAL ORDINANCE amending the City-County Annual Budget for 2021 (City-County Fiscal Ordinance No. 20, 2020) 
by an additional appropriation of Two Million Five Hundred Ninety-Five Thousand dollars ($2,595,000) for the purposes 
of the Indianapolis Fire Department. 
 
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE  
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA:  
 
SECTION 1.  To provide for expenditures the necessity for which has arisen since its adoption, the City-County Annual 
Budget for 2021 is hereby amended by the fund and character increase hereinafter stated for purposes of the Indianapolis 
Fire Department. 
 
SECTION 2.  The Indianapolis Fire Department requests an additional appropriation of Four Hundred Twenty Thousand 
dollars ($420,000) in character one, One Hundred Thousand dollars ($100,000) in character two, Two Million dollars 
($2,000,000) in character three, and Seventy-Five Thousand dollars ($75,000) in character 4 in the Federal Grants Fund to 
support expenses incurred during the deployment of Indiana Task Force One in response to the Champaign Tower 
Collapse 
. 
FUND CHAR 1 CHAR 2 CHAR 3 CHAR 4 CHAR 5 TOTAL 
Federal Grants 
Fund 420,000 100,000 2,000,000 75,000  2,595,000 
 
SECTION 3.  Upon approval of this and other pending proposals, the 2020 year -end and projected 2021 year-end fund 
balances are as follows: 
 
Fund 2020 Year-End Balance Projected 2021 Year-End Balance 
Federal Grants Fund 0 0 
 
SECTION 4.  Except to the extent of matching funds, if any, approved in this ordinance, the council does not intend to use 
the revenues from any local tax regardless of source to supplement or extend the appropriation for the agencies or projects 
authorized by this ordinance. The supervisor of the agency or project, or both, and the controller are directed to notify in 
writing the city-county council immediately upon receipt of any information that the agency or project is, or may be, reduced 
or eliminated.  
 
SECTION 5.  This ordinance shall be in full force and effect upon adoption and compliance with IC 36-3-4-14.

=== 2021-09-13 minutes, page 32 of 102 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 36 
PROPOSAL NO. 286, 2021.  Councillor Mascari repor ted that the Administration and Finance 
Committee heard Proposal  No. 286, 2021 on August 17, 2021.  The proposa l, sponsored by 
Councillors Osili and J. Evans, establishes an ARP Coronavirus Local Fiscal Recovery Subfund of 
the Federal Stimulus-Coronavirus Pandemic Fund to hold the City's allocation of Fiscal Recovery 
Fund dollars from the federal government pursuant to the American Rescue Plan Act of 2021 and 
approves an appropriation totaling $206,309,559 in the 2021 City Non-Departmental Budget (ARP 
Coronavirus Local Fiscal Recovery Subfund) in characters one, three, and four to fund response 
efforts addressing the COVID-19 pandemic, including public-health measures; programs to combat 
the secondary economic effects of the pandemic faced by Marion County residents, small 
businesses, and non- profits; and expenses incurr ed, or that will be incurred, by City- County 
government in response to the pandemic.  By a 12-0 vote, the Committee reported the proposal to 
the Council with the recommendation that it do pass.   
 
President Osili called for public testimony at 8:06 p.m. 
 
Mr. Vaughn said that the Council has the a bility to appropriate these funds the way they see fit.  
Spending $115 million for psychiatric help for people who are wondering the streets homeless does 
not make sense.   
 
Justine Phillips, citizen, said that she knows what the pandemic has done to those who suffer from 
substance abuse and mental health issues.  Overdose rates are increasing, and these funds will 
help get these individuals past the abuse and into recovery.  They are the most vulnerable in the 
city and there are very little housing opportunities for them. 
 
Marshawn Wolley, citizen, said that only 20% of the black-owned firms are able to receive a loan 
from a traditional bank, and he supports a black-led non-profit community loan entity.  Black 
businesses are integral to this community, and this is a step up to pursuing equity in 2022.   
 
Seeing no further testimony, Councillor Mascari moved, seconded by Councillor Adamson, for 
adoption.  Proposal No. 286, 2021 was adopted on the following roll call vote; viz: 
 
24 YEAS: Adamson, Bain, Barth, Boots, Brown, Carlino, Dilk, Evans-E, Evans-J, Graves, Gray, 
Hart, Jackson, Jones, Larrison, Lewis, Mascari, McCormick, Mowery, Oliver, Osili, Potts, Ray, 
Robinson 
0 NAYS:  
1 ABSENT: Annee 
 
Proposal No. 286, 2021 was retitled FISCAL ORDINANCE NO. 20, 2021, and reads as follows: 
 
CITY-COUNTY FISCAL ORDINANCE NO. 20, 2021 
 
A FISCAL ORDINANCE amending the City-County Annual Budget for 2021 (City-County Fiscal Ordinance No. 20, 2020) 
by additional appropriations of two hundred six million, three hundred nine thousand, five hundred fifty- nine dollars 
($206,309,559) for purposes of the City Non-Departmental. 
 
WHEREAS, the COVID-19 pandemic has taken—and continues to take—a severe toll on our country, our state, and 
our Indianapolis and Marion County community; and 
 
WHEREAS, Marion County has now experienced well over 100,000 confirmed cases of COVID-19 and over 1,800 
deaths confirmed to be caused by COVID-19; and 
 
WHEREAS, the spread of COVID-19 throughout our country and our community poses a severe and imminent threat 
to public health and has required aggressive response measures to slow the spread of the disease and mitigate its impact; and

=== 2021-09-13 minutes, page 33 of 102 ===
September 13, 2021 
 
 37  
WHEREAS, the COVID-19 pandemic has also required, and continues to require, signif icant investments in local 
public-health efforts to mitigate the spread of coronavirus; and 
 
WHEREAS, the COVID-19 pandemic has also required, and continues to require, significant investments to combat 
the secondary effects caused by the pandemic—including investments to mitigate significant pandemic-caused hardships 
being faced by Marion County’s residents and small businesses; and 
 
WHEREAS, Section 9901 of the American Rescue Plan Act of 2021 (ARP Act), amending Section 603 of the Social 
Security Act, created the Coronavirus Local Fiscal Recovery Fund (FRF) and allocated block grants to certain large 
municipalities in the United States; and 
 
WHEREAS, the City and County have received $209,884,727 in total funds, which represents 50% of their overall 
FRF allocation, with the remaining 50% of funds to be allocated from the federal government in 2022; and 
 
WHEREAS, Section 9901 of the ARP Act states that FRF dollars may be used for the following purposes: 
 
(A) to respond to the public health emergency w ith respect to the Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) or its 
negative economic impacts, including assistance to households,  small businesses, and nonprofits, or aid to 
impacted industries such as tourism, travel, and hospitality; 
 
(B) to respond to worker s performing essential work during the COVID -19 public health emergency by providing 
premium pay to eligible workers of the metropolitan city, non-entitlement unit of local government, or county 
that are performing such essential work, or by providing grants to eligible employers that have eligible workers 
who perform essential work; 
 
(C) for the provision of government services to the extent of the reduction in revenue of such metropolitan city, non-
entitlement unit of local government, or county due to the  COVID-19 public health emergency relative to 
revenues collected in the most recent full  fiscal year of the metropolitan city, non -entitlement unit of local 
government, or county prior to the emergency; or 
 
(D) to make necessary investments in water, sewer, or broadband infrastructure; and 
 
WHEREAS, the ARP Act and Department of the Treasury guidance emphasize the need to take account of racial 
inequities and other disparities in the impact of the COVID -19 pandemic and encourage state and local governments to 
prioritize addressing systemic racial and other disparities in their implementation of FRF dollars; and 
 
WHEREAS, the City has developed, and will continue to develop, plans to implement its FRF dollars to ensure the 
community’s resilient response to the public health threat caused by the pandemic and its related effects, including direct 
COVID-19 mitigation, promotion of vaccination, investments in mental health and behavioral health care, creation of 
additional public health and safety personnel resources, homelessness services and homelessness prevention, evidence-based 
community violence intervention programs, and other public-health initiatives that are eligible uses of FRF dollars under the 
ARP Act; and 
 
WHEREAS, the City has developed, and will continue to develop, plans to address the economic impact of COVID-
19 on households, including direct financial assistance to economically impacted households, food assistance, addressing 
educational disparities, mortgage or utility assistance, legal aid to prevent eviction and/or homelessness, assistance to Marion 
County businesses and non-profits affected by the pandemic, and other economic recovery measures that are eligible uses 
of FRF dollars under the ARP Act; and 
 
WHEREAS, the City has developed, and will continue to develop, plans to implement its FRF dollars to provide 
premium pay to eligible essential workers, to offset reductions in government revenue caused by the pandemic, and to make 
investments in eligible infrastructure projects; and 
 
WHEREAS, the expenditures requested in this fiscal ordinance represent an initial round of investments in initiatives 
designed to address the public health threat posed by COVID -19, to promote economic recovery from the pandemic, to 
promote equitable recovery, and to ensure fiscal stability; and 
 
WHEREAS, all expenditures described in this fiscal ordinance are eligible under the ARP Act and existing federal 
guidance from the Department of the Treasury, now, therefore: 
 
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE  
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA:

=== 2021-09-13 minutes, page 34 of 102 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 38 
 
SECTION 1. The ARP Coronavirus Local Fiscal Recovery Subfund of the Federal Stimulus-Coronavirus Pandemic Fund 
is established to receive the current balance of unexpended dollars received by the City and County pursuant to Section 9901 
of the ARP Act as their Fiscal Recovery Fund (FRF) allocations. 
 
SECTION 2. In accordance with the language of the ARP Act and all implementing Department of Treasury guidance to 
date, the City-County Council hereby finds that the expenditures contemplated in this fiscal ordinance satisfies the eligibility 
criteria of Section 9901 of the ARP Act; namely, they are expenditures  
 
(A) to respond to the public health emergency with respect to the Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID -19) or 
its negative economic impacts, including assistance to households, small businesses, and no nprofits, or aid to 
impacted industries such as tourism, travel, 
and hospitality;  
 
(B) to respond to workers performing essential work during the COVID-19 public health 
emergency by providing premium pay to eligible workers of the metropolitan city, non-entitlement 
unit of local government, or county that are performing such essential work, or by providing grants to eligible 
employers that have eligible workers who perform essential 
work; 
 
(C) for the provision of government services to the extent of the reduction in revenue of 
such metropolitan city, non-entitlement unit of local government, or county due to the 
COVID-19 public health emergency relative to revenues collected in the most recent full 
fiscal year of the metropolitan city, non-entitlement unit of local government, or county 
prior to the emergency; or 
 
 (D) to make necessary investments in water, sewer, or broadband infrastructure, 
 
as to which all app ropriated funds will be fully expended on or before December 31, 2024, and as to which all other 
eligibility criteria set forth in Section 9901 of the ARP Act, other applicable provisions of the ARP Act, and Treasury 
guidance will be satisfied. 
 
SECTION 3.  The City Non-Departmental, requests an additional appropriation in character one totaling seven million four 
hundred forty thousand three hundred seventy-four dollars ($7,440,374), character three totaling one hundred sixty-four 
million three hundred sixty-nine thousand one hundred eighty-five dollars ($164,369,185), and character four totaling thirty-
four million five hundred thousand dollars ($34,500,000), totaling two hundred six million three hundred nine thousand five 
hundred fifty-nine dollars ($206,309,559) from the ARP Coronavirus Local Fiscal Recovery Subfund of the Federal 
Stimulus-Coronavirus Pandemic Fund. 
 
FUND CHAR 1 CHAR 2 CHAR 3 CHAR 4 CHAR 5 TOTAL 
ARP Coronavirus 
Local Fiscal 
Recovery Subfund  
7,440,374 
 
 
 
 
164,369,185 
 
 
34,500,000 
 
206,309,559 
 
SECTION 4.  The Controller shall have authority, until the declared disaster emergency is terminated under Indiana Code 
§ 10-14-3-12(a), to alter the character allocation of the total funds appropriated herein to carry forth the City-County’s 
response to the declared emergency. 
 
SECTION 5.  Except to the extent of matching funds, if any, approved in this ordinance, the council does not intend 
to use the revenues from any local tax regardless of source to supplement or extend the appropriation for t he agencies 
or projects authorized by this ordinance. The supervisor of the agency or project, or both, and the controller are 
directed to notify in writing the city -county council immediately upon receipt of any information that the agency or 
project is, or may be, reduced or eliminated.  
 
SECTION 6.  Funds placed in the ARP Coronavirus Local Fiscal Recovery Subfund of the Federal Stimulus- Coronavirus 
Pandemic Fund shall remain in that fund until December 31, 2024, and shall not lapse or revert at the end of calendar year 
2021 or at the end of any calendar year prior to Dec ember 31, 2024. The funds appropriated herein to the City Non-
Departmental from the ARP Coronavirus Local Fiscal Recovery Fund shall not lapse or revert at the end of calendar year 
2021 or at the end of any calendar year prior to December 31, 2024. 
 
SECTION 7.  Upon approval of this proposal, the following unappropriated fund balances are projected to remain at the end 
of 2024:

=== 2021-09-13 minutes, page 35 of 102 ===
September 13, 2021 
 
 39  
 
Fund 2020 Year End Balance  Projected 2024 Year-End Balance 
ARP Coronavirus Local Fiscal 
Recovery Subfund $0 $0 
 
SECTION 8.  This ordinance shall be in full force and effect upon adoption and compliance with IC 36-3-4-14.  
 
PROPOSAL NO. 290, 2021.  Councillor Adamson reported that the Public Works Committee  
heard Proposal No. 290, 2021 on August 12, 2021.  The proposal, sponsored by Councillor 
Adamson, Jackson, Boots, J. Evans, E. Evans, McCormick, approves an additional appropriation 
totaling $25,000,000 in the 2021 Budget of the Department of Public Works (Ca pital Asset 
Lifecycle and Development Fund) in Characters 3 and 4 to finance design, construction and 
inspection of capital infrastructure projects in furtherance of development of  Greenways, 
Neighborways, and other multimodal facilities as prescribed in the City of Indianapolis and Marion 
County Indy Moves Transportation Integration and Thoroughfare Plans .  By a 10-0 vote , the 
Committee reported the proposal to the Council with the recommendation that it do pass.   
 
Councillors Jackson, J. Evans, Boots, E. Evans, and McCormick voiced their strong support of the 
proposal and stated that they would like to see more of these types of projects throughou t the 
County, and asked to be added as co-sponsors.   
 
President Osili called for public testimony at 8: 19 p.m.  There being no one present to testify,  
Councillor Adamson moved, seconded by Councillor Carlino , for adoption.  Proposal No. 290, 
2021 was adopted on the following roll call vote; viz: 
 
24 YEAS: Adamson, Bain, Barth, Boots, Brown, Carlino, Dilk, Evans-E, Evans-J, Graves, Gray, 
Hart, Jackson, Jones, Larrison, Lewis, Mascari, McCormick, Mowery, Oliver, Osili, Potts, Ray, 
Robinson 
0 NAYS:  
1 ABSENT: Annee 
 
Proposal No. 290, 2021 was retitled FISCAL ORDINANCE NO. 21, 2021, and reads as follows: 
 
CITY-COUNTY FISCAL ORDINANCE NO. 21, 2021 
 
PROPOSAL FOR A FISCAL ORDINANCE amending the City -County Annual Budget for  2021 (City-County Fiscal 
Ordinance No.20, 2020) by additional appropriations totaling twenty-five million dollars ($25,000,000) for purposes of the 
Department of Public Works. 
 
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE 
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA: 
 
SECTION 1. To provide for expenditures, the necessity for which has arisen since the adoption, the City-County Annual 
Budget for 2021 is hereby amended by the character increases hereinafter stated for purposes of the Department of Public 
Works. 
 
SECTION 2. The Department of Public Works requests additional appropriations totaling twenty-five million dollars 
($25,000,000) in the Capital Asset Lifecycle and Development Fund in Characters Three and Four to finance the design, 
construction, and inspection of capital infrastructure projects in furtherance of development of Greenways, Neighborways, 
and other multimodal facilities as prescribed in the City of Indianapolis and Marion County Indy Moves T ransportation 
Integration and Thoroughfare Plans: 
 
FUND CHAR 1 CHAR 2 CHAR 3 CHAR 4 CHAR 5 TOTAL 
Capital Asset Lifecycle 
and Development Fund   3,000,000 22,000,000  25,000,000

=== 2021-09-13 minutes, page 36 of 102 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 40 
SECTION 3.  In support of the additional appropriation provided in Section 2, funds totaling twenty-five million dollars 
($25,000,000) are to be transferred from the Consolidated County General Fund to th e Capital Asset Lifecycle and 
Development Fund. 
 
SECTION 4.  Upon approval of this and other pending approvals, the following unappropriated fund balances are projected 
to remain at the end of 2021: 
 
Fund 2020 Year-End Balance Projected 2021 Year-End Balance 
Capital Asset Lifecycle and Development Fund - 2,609 
 
SECTION 5. This ordinance shall be in full force and effect upon adoption and compliance with IC 36-3-4-14.   
SPECIAL ORDERS - FINAL ADOPTION 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 220, 2021.  Councillor Lewis reported t hat the Metropolitan and Economic 
Development Committee heard Proposal No. 220, 2021 on July 19, 2021, and it was subsequently 
postponed at Council on August 9, 2021.  The proposal, sponsored by Councillor J. Evans, approves 
the statement of benefits of Micronutrients USA, LLC, an applicant for tax abatement for property 
located in an economic revitalization area.  By an 11-0-1 vote, the Committee reported the proposal 
to the Council with the recommendation that it do pass.   
 
Councillor Hart asked about the abatement terms.  Rusty Car r, Depar tment of Metropolitan 
Development (DMD), said that the three-year savings would total approximately $260,000, and it 
is the standard schedule and deduction, with personal property investment being made.  Councillor 
Hart said that the hourly rate they are paying is good, but asked what investmenst they are making 
in the growth of their people .  Car la Jackson, Quality Director, MicroNutrients, stated that they 
look internally when advancing employees and do the proper tra ining for the next level.  They 
always take the steps to insure that those who want to advance get the skills and cross-training they 
need to advance in the company, because they want them to stay 15 to 20 years.  It takes a long 
time to find quality people, and they do not want a revolving door.  Councillor Hart asked if the  
developer has talked to the commun ity about the community’s needs.  Councillor J. Evans called 
for a point of order and said that this company has reached out to all community organizations and 
all this information is in Councillors’ mailboxes and was answered in committee, and this is a very 
small project to undergo the type of scru tiny it has seen, when they have not done the same with 
other much larger projects.   
 
Councillor Lewis said that this company has been very transparent and eager to answer any and all 
questions in committee, and it is better to ask these types of questions in committee. 
 
Scarlett Martin, director, DMD, said that they have evolved the tax abatement program to look at 
the full benefits package  employers are offering when determining the abatement.  These 
developers are also inv esting an a dditional 5% into the community and donating to transit 
development so that their employees can get to work.   
 
Councillor Jackson asked for consent to abstain from voting t o avoid the appearance of a conflict 
of interest. Consent was given. 
 
Councillor Hart said that he is elected like everyone else on this body and has the right to ask 
questions whenever and wherever he can about economic development in any part of this city.  He 
wants to support businesses that will invest in residents and in this community, and he cannot attend 
every committee meeting in order to ask questions.

=== 2021-09-13 minutes, page 37 of 102 ===
September 13, 2021 
 
 41  
Councillor Lewis moved, seconded by Councillor Adamson, for adoption.  Proposal No. 220, 
2021 was adopted on the following roll call vote; viz: 
 
23 YEAS: Adamson, Bain, Barth, Boots, Brown, Carlino, Dilk, Evans-E, Evans-J, Graves, Gray, 
Hart, Jones, Larrison, Lewis, Mascari, McCormick, Mowery, Oliver, Osili, Potts, Ray, 
Robinson 
0 NAYS:  
1 NOT VOTING: Jackson 
1 ABSENT: Annee 
 
Proposal No. 220, 2021 was retitled GENERAL RE SOLUTION NO. 13, 2021, and reads as 
follows: 
 
CITY-COUNTY GENERAL RESOLUTION NO. 13, 2021 
 
PROPOSAL FOR A GENERAL RESOLUTION to approve the statement of benefits of Micronutrients USA , LLC 
(hereinafter referred to as “Applicant”), an applicant for tax abatement for property located in an allocation area as defined 
by IC 36-7-15.1-26. 
 
WHEREAS, IC 6-1.1-12.1 allows a partial abatement of property taxes attributable to redevelopment, rehabilitation 
activities or installation of new equipment in Economic Revitalization Areas (each hereinafter referred to as a “Project”); 
and 
 
WHEREAS, pursuant to IC 6-1.1-12.1, the Metropolitan Development Commission of Marion County, Indiana, 
acting as the Redevelopment Commission of the Cit y of Indianapolis, Indiana (hereinafter ref erred to as " MDC") is 
empowered to designate Economic Revitalization Areas; and  
 
WHEREAS, IC 6-1.1-12.1 requires an applicant for Economic Revitalization Area designation to provide a 
statement of benefits and requires the MDC, before it makes a decision to designate the area as an Economic 
Revitalization Area, to determine that (i) the estimated value of a Project is reasonable for projects of that nature, (ii) the 
estimated employment at the indicated annual salaries for a Project identified in the statement of benefits can reasonably 
be expected, (iii) a Project can be reasonably exp ected to yield the benefits identified in the statement of benefits and (iv) 
the totality of benefits arising from a Project is sufficient to justify Economic Revitalization Area designation; and  
 
WHEREAS, pursuant to IC 6-1.1-12.1-2(k), a statement of benefits for property located within an allocation area, as 
defined by IC 36 -7-15.1-26, may not be approved unless the City -County Council of Indianapolis and  Marion County, 
Indiana (hereinafter referred to as "Council") adopts a resolution approving the statement of benefits; and  
 
WHEREAS, the Applicant has submitted a real property Statement of Benefits to the MDC as part of its application 
for Economic Revitalization Area designation for property where Applicant’s Project will occur, located within an 
allocation area, as defined by IC 36-7-15.1-26; and 
 
WHEREAS, MDC has preliminarily approved Applicant’s Statement of Benefits, pending adoption from the 
Council, to allow the designation of the Economic Revitalization Area and related tax abatem ent pursuant to IC 6 -1.1-
12.1; now, therefore: 
 
BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE 
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA: 
 
SECTION 1.  The Council hereby approves the  Statements of Benefits that were submitted to the MDC, as part  of the 
application for Economic Revitalization Area designation, by Micronutrients USA, LLC. 
 
SECTION 2.  This resolution shall be in effect from and after its passage by the Council and compliance with Ind. Code 36-
3-4-14. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 221, 2021.  Councillor Lewis reported that the Metropolitan and Economic 
Development Committee heard Proposal No. 221, 2021 on July 19 and August 23, 2021.  The 
proposal, sponsored by Councillor Adamson, authorizes the issuance of Economic Development 
Tax Increment Revenue Bonds in a maximum aggregate principal amount not to exceed $3,750,000

=== 2021-09-13 minutes, page 38 of 102 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 42 
to 1820 Ventures, LLC, for the Elevator Hill Phase I project, located in the Elevator Hill Expansion 
Allocation Are a at approximately 1117 E. Market Street (District 17) .  By an 11 -0 vote, the 
Committee reported the proposal to the Council with the recommendation that it do pass.   
 
Councillor Gray said that he is surprised that this project was approved with such MBE/WBE 
numbers, and said that he will be watching it closely. 
 
Councillor E. Evans asked if $3.75 million is the principal amount means they will be coming 
back for more.  Ms. Martin said that this is the entire amount for this phase.   
 
Councillor Lewis said that they are compliant with the required 15% MBE, 8% WBE, 3% VBE 
and 1% DBE.  Councillor Gray said that this is what they portrayed, but he would like a list of the 
companies and amount spent with each.  Ms. Martin said that OMWBD will track this 
information and get it for Councillor Gray.  Jared Stevens, Ventures, LLC, said that projects are 
out for bid currently, but they are glad to work with OMWBD to meet and exceed those numbers.   
 
Councillor Lewis moved, seconded by Councillor Carlino, for adoption.  Proposal No. 221, 2021 
was adopted on the following roll call vote; viz: 
 
23 YEAS: Adamson, Bain, Barth, Boots, Brown, Carlino, Dilk, Evans-E, Evans-J, Graves, Gray, 
Jackson, Jones, Larrison, Lewis, Mascari, McCormick, Mowery, Oliver, Osili, Potts, Ray,  
Robinson 
1 NAY: Hart 
1 ABSENT: Annee 
 
Proposal No. 221, 2021 was retitled SPECIAL ORDINANCE NO. 10, 2021, and reads as follows: 
 
CITY-COUNTY SPECIAL ORDINANCE NO. 10, 2021 
 
A SPECIAL ORDINANCE authorizing the City of Indianapolis, Indiana, to issue one or more series of its City of Indianapolis, 
Indiana, Economic Development Tax Increment Revenue Bonds, Series 2021 (Federally Taxable – Elevator Hill Phase I) 
(with such further series or other designation as determined to be necessary, desirable or appropriate), in a maximum aggregate 
principal amount not to exceed Three Million Se ven Hundred Fifty Thousand Dollars ($3,750,000), for the purpose of 
providing funds to pay the costs of the Project (as defined herein) and approving and authorizing other actions in respect 
thereto. 
 
WHEREAS, Indiana Code 36-7-11.9 and 12 (collectively, the “Act”) declares that the financing and refinancing of 
economic development facilities constitutes a public purpose; and 
 
WHEREAS, pursuant to the Act, the City of Indianapolis, Indiana (the “City”) is authorized to issue revenue bonds 
for the purpose of  financing, reimbursing or refinancing the costs of acquisition, construction, renovation, installation 
and equipping of economic development facilities in order to foster diversification of economic development and creation 
or retention of opportunities for gainful employment in or near the City; and 
 
WHEREAS, 1820 Ventures LLC, and/or one or more subsidiaries, affiliates, designees and/or joint ventures thereof 
(collectively, the “Developer”) desires to finance certain projects, additions or improvements within the City, including all or 
any portion of: (a) the construction of a residential development consisting of approximately 77,000 square feet and 
approximately 103 residential units atop a concrete podium including structured parking and residential amenities; and (b) all 
acquisition, construction, demolition, renovation, improvement, excavation, utility relocation and/or equipping costs 
related to the projects described in clause (a) (collectively, the “Project”); and 
 
WHEREAS, the Project will be located at approximately 1117 E. Market Street, Indianapolis, Indiana, which is in City-
County Council District 17, and is, or will be, located in, serving or physically connected to a new allocation area, known as the 
Elevator Hill Expansion Allocation Area, a component of the Consolidated Allocation Area (together, the “Allocation Area”), 
previously created by the Metropolitan Development Commission of Marion County, Indiana (the “Metropolitan Development 
Commission”), acting as the Redevelopment Commission of the City; and

=== 2021-09-13 minutes, page 39 of 102 ===
September 13, 2021 
 
 43  
WHEREAS, the Developer has advised the Indianapolis Economic Development Commission (the “Economic 
Development Commission”) and the City concerning the Project, and has requested that the City issue one or more series 
of its taxable Economic Development Tax Increment Revenue Bonds, Series 2021 (Federally Taxable –  Elevator Hill 
Phase I) (with such further or different series designation as may be necessary, desirable or appropriate, including such 
series designation to indicate the year in which the bonds are issued) (the “Bonds”), in an aggregate principal amount not 
to exceed Three Million Seven Hundred Fifty Thousand Dollars ($3,750,000), for the purpose of providing funds for (i) 
paying all or a portion of the costs of the Project by loaning a portion of the proceeds of the Bonds to the Developer and 
(ii) paying all incidental expenses incurred on account of the issuance of the Bonds; and 
 
WHEREAS, the Economic Development Commission has rendered a report concerning the proposed financing of 
the Project as an economic development facility for the Developer and the Metropolitan Development Commission, as 
Plan Commission, and the Superintendent of the Indianapolis Public Schools have been given the opportunity to comment 
thereon; and 
 
WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 24 of the Act, following a public hearing held on August 11, 2021, the Economic 
Development Commission found that the financing of the Project complies with the purposes and provisions of the Act 
and that such financing will be of benefit to the health and welfare of the City; and 
 
WHEREAS, the Economic Development Commission has determined that the financing will not have an adverse 
competitive effect or impact on any similar facility or facility of the same kind already constructed or operating in the 
same market area or in or about Marion County, Indiana; and 
 
WHEREAS, pursuant to and in accordance with the Act, the City desires to provide funds necessary to finance all 
or a portion of the Project by issuing the Bonds; and 
 
WHEREAS, the Act provides that such revenue bonds may be secured by a trust indenture between an issuer and 
a corporate trustee; and 
 
WHEREAS, the City intends to issue the Bonds consiste nt with the terms of this Ordinance and pursuant to a 
Trust Indenture, to be dated the first day of the month in which the Bonds are sold or delivered (or such other date as 
the officers of the City may hereafter approve) (the “Indenture”), by and between the City and a corporate trustee to be 
selected by the City (the “Trustee”), in order to obtai n funds necessary to provide for the financing of all or a portion 
of the Project, in accordance with the terms of a Financing Agreement, to be dated the first day of the month in which 
the Bonds are sold or delivered (or such other date as the officers of  the City may hereafter approve) (the “Financing 
Agreement”), by and between the City and the Developer with respect to the Bonds and the Project, and a Project 
Agreement (as defined herein) between the City and the Developer, with respect to the Bonds and Project, and other 
such documents as deemed necessary; and 
 
WHEREAS, pursuant to the Financing Agreement, the Developer will make certain representations, warran ties 
and commitments with respect to the Project and the use of the proceeds of the Bonds to be provided to the Developer 
in accordance with the terms thereof; and 
 
WHEREAS, no member of the City -County Council has any pecuniary interest in any employment,  financing 
agreement or other contract made under the provisions of the Act and related to the  Bonds authorized herein, which 
pecuniary interest has not been fully disclosed to the City-County Council and no such member has voted on any such 
matter, all in accordance with the provisions of Indiana Code 36-7-12-16; and 
 
WHEREAS, the Economic Develo pment Commission has heretofore approved the forms of the Bonds, the 
Indenture and the Financing Agreement (collectively, the “Financing Documents”), and approved and recommended 
the City-County Council’s adoption of a form of this proposed Ordinance, which were incorporated by reference in the 
Economic Development Commission’s Resolution adopted on August 11, 2021, which Resolution has been transmitted 
hereto; and 
 
WHEREAS, prior to the issuance of the Bonds, the Metropolitan Development Commission will pledge eighty 
percent (80%) of the tax increment revenues from the Project (the “TIF Revenues”) to the payment of the Bonds and 
other matters in furtherance of the Pr oject on a junior-junior subordinate basis to the prior payment of existing bonds 
to which such TIF Revenues are pledged and that the pledge of TIF Revenues will not exceed the debt service on the 
Bonds; and 
 
WHEREAS, based upon the resolution adopted by the Economic Development Commission pertaining to the 
Project, the City -County Council hereby finds and determines that the funding approved by the Economic 
Development Commission for all or a portion of the Project will be of benefit to the health and ge neral welfare of

=== 2021-09-13 minutes, page 40 of 102 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 44 
the citizens of the City, complies with the provisions of the Act and the amount necessary to finance all or a portion 
of the costs of the Project, together with incidental expenses incurred in connection therewith, will require the 
issuance, sale and delivery of one or more series of economic development tax increment revenue bonds in an 
aggregate combined principal amount not to exceed Three Million Seven Hundred and Fifty Thousand Dollars 
($3,750,000). 
 
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE  
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA: 
 
SECTION 1. It is hereby found, determined, ratified and confirmed that the financing of the economic development 
facilities referred to in the Financing Documents consisting of the Projec t, the issuance and sale of the Bonds, and the 
loan of the net proceeds thereof to the Developer to finance all or a portion of the Project, will: (i) result in the 
diversification of industry, the creation or retention of business opportunities and the cr eation or retention of 
opportunities for gainful employment within the jurisdiction of the City; (ii) serve a public purpose, and will be of 
benefit to the health and general welfare of the City; (iii) comply with the purposes and provisions of the Act and it is 
in the public interest that the City take such lawful action as determined to be necessary or desirable to encourage the 
diversification of industry, the creation or retention of business opportunities, and the creation or retention of 
opportunities for gainful employment within the jurisdiction of the City; and (iv) not have a material adverse 
competitive effect on any similar facilities already constructed or operating in or near the City.  
 
SECTION 2. The forms of the Financing Documents presented herewith are hereby approved and all such documents 
shall be kept on file by the Clerk of the City-County Council (the “Clerk”) or the Controller of the City (the “Controller”). 
In compliance with Indiana Code 36- 1-5-4, two (2) copies of the F inancing Documents are on file in the office of the 
Clerk for public inspection. 
 
SECTION 3. The City is authorized to issue the Bonds in one or more series, any series of which may be taxable for 
federal income tax purposes, in the maximum aggregate principal amount not to exceed Three Million Seven  Hundred 
Fifty Thousand Dollars ($3,750,000), with a maximum term not to exceed twenty-five (25) years and with a maximum 
interest rate not to exceed five percent (5%) per annum, for the purpose of procuring funds to (i) pay all or a portion of 
the costs of the Project by loaning a portion of the proceeds of the Bonds to the Developer and (ii) pay all incidental 
expenses incurred on account of the issuance of the Bonds. The Bonds shall be payable as to principal and interest solely 
from an eighty percent (80%) pledge of the TIF Revenues on a junior -junior subordinate basis, upon such terms and 
conditions as otherwise provided in the Financing Documents and this Ordinance.  The Bonds shall never constitute a 
general obligation of, an indebtedness of, or charge against the general credit of the City. 
 
SECTION 4. The Mayor and the Clerk are authorized and directed to execute the Financing Documents, and the Mayor, the 
Controller, the Clerk and any other officer of the City are authorized and directed to execute such other documents approved 
or authorized herein and any other document which may be necessary, appropriate or desirable to consummate the transaction 
contemplated by the Financing Documents and this Ordinance, and their execution is hereby confirmed on behalf of the City. 
The signatures of the Mayor and the Clerk on the Bonds, and their execution is hereby confirmed on behalf of the City. The 
signatures of the Mayor and the Clerk on the Bonds may be facsimile signatures. The Mayor, the Clerk, the Controller and 
any other officer of the City are authorized to arrange for the delivery of the Bonds to the purchaser, payment for which will 
be made in the manner set forth in the Financing Documents. The Mayor and the Clerk may, by their execution of the Financing 
Documents requiring their signatures and imprinting of their facsimile signatures thereon, approve any and all such changes 
therein and also in those Financing Documents which do not require the signature of the Mayor or the Clerk without further 
approval of this City-County Council or the Economic Development Commission if such changes do not affect terms set forth 
in Sections 27(a)(1) through and including (a)(10) of the Act. 
 
SECTION 5. The provisions of this Ordinance and the Financing Documents shall constitute a contract binding between the 
City and the holder or holders of the Bonds and after the issuance of said Bonds, this Ordinance shall not be repealed or amended 
in any respect which would adversely affect the right of such holder or holders so long as said Bonds or the interest thereon 
remains unpaid. 
 
SECTION 6. The Mayor, the Controller and the Clerk, or any other officer having responsibility with respect to the issuance 
of the Bonds, are authorized and dire cted, alone or in conjunction with any of the foregoing, or with any other officer, 
employee, consultant or agent of the City, to deliver a certificate for inclusion in the transcript of proceedings for the Bonds, 
setting forth the facts, estimates and circumstances and reasonable expectations pertaining to the use of the Bond proceeds as 
of the date of issuance thereof. 
 
SECTION 7. No recourse under or upon any obligation, covenant, acceptance or agreement contained in this Ordinance, the 
Financing Documents or under any judgment obtained against the City, including without limitation its Economic 
Development Commission, or by the enforcement of any assessment or by any legal or equitable proceeding by virtue of any

=== 2021-09-13 minutes, page 41 of 102 ===
September 13, 2021 
 
 45  
constitution or statute or otherwise, or under any circumstances, under or independent of the Financing Agreement, shall be 
had against any member, director, or officer or attorney, as such, past, present, or future, of the City, including without 
limitation its Economic Development Commission, either directly or through the City, or otherwise, for the payment for or 
to the City or any receiver thereof or for or to any holder of the Bonds secured thereby, or otherwise, of any sum that may 
remain due and unpaid by the City upon any of the Bonds. Any and all personal liability of every nature, whether at common 
law or in equity, or by statute or by constitution or otherwise, of any such member, director, or officer or attorney, as such, to 
respond by reason of any act or omission on his or her part or otherwise for, directly or indirectly, the payment for or to the 
City or any receiver thereof, or for or to any owner or holder of the Bonds, or otherwise, of any sum that may remain due and 
unpaid upon the Bonds hereby secured or any at them, shall be e xpressly waived and released as a condition of and 
consideration for the execution and delivery of the Financing Agreement and the issuance, sale and delivery of the Bonds. 
 
SECTION 8. If any section, paragraph or provision of this Ordinance shall be held to be invalid or unenforceable for 
any reason, the invalidity or unenforceability of such section, paragraph or provision shall not affect any of the remaining 
provisions of this Ordinance. 
 
SECTION 9. All ordinances, resolutions and orders or parts thereo f, in conflict with the provisions of this Ordinance 
are, to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed. 
 
SECTION 10. It is hereby determined that all formal actions of the City-County Council relating to the adoption of this 
Ordinance were taken in one or more open meetings of the Council, that all deliberations of the City-County Council and of its 
committees, if any, which resulted in formal action, were in meetings open to the public, and that all such meetings were 
convened, held and conducted in compliance with applicable legal requirements, including Indiana Code 5-14-1.5, as amended. 
 
SECTION 11. The Mayor, the Controller, the Clerk and any other officer of the City are hereby authorized and directed, in the 
name and on behalf of the City, to execute, attest and deliver such further instruments and documents, and to take such further 
actions, in the name of the City as in their judgment shall be necessary or advisable in order fully to consummate the transactions 
described herein and carry out the purposes of this Ordinance, and any such documents heretofore executed and delivered and 
any such actions heretofore taken, be, and hereby are, ratified and approved. The Mayor or his designee is hereby authorized 
to enter into one or more project agreements with the Developer, on terms and conditions acceptable to the Mayor, together 
with any changes as may be necessary, desirable or appropriate, which shall be evidenced by his execution thereof. 
 
SECTION 12. This Ordinance shall be in full force and effect upon adoption and compliance with Indiana Code 36-3-4-
14. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 222, 2021.  Councillor Lewis reported that the Metropolitan and Economic 
Development Committee heard Proposal No. 222, 2021 on July 19 and August 23, 2021.  The 
proposal, sponsored by Councillor Jones, authorizes the issuance of Economic Development Tax 
Increment Revenue Bonds in a maximum aggregate principal amount not to exceed $8,660,000 to 
TWG Development, LLC, for the Rise on Meridian project locat ed in the South Meridian 
Allocation Area at approximately 915 South Meridian Street (District 16) .  By an 11-0 vote, the 
Committee reported the proposal to the Council with the recommendation that it do pass.   
 
Councillor Jones moved, seconded by Councillor McCormick, to amend Proposal No. 222, 2021 
as follows: 
 
Mr. President: 
 
     I move to amend SECTION 3 of Proposal No. 222, 2021, in order to allow TWG to realize the stated 80% TIF 
revenue pledge by setting the interest rate for the bonds at the typical maximum rate for a newly created TIF allocation 
area; by deleting the language that is double stricken- through and adding the double underlined language in the 
highlighted portions, to read as follows:.  
 
SECTION 3. The City is authorized to issue the Bonds in one or more series, any series of which may be taxable 
for federal income tax purposes, in the maximum aggregate principal amount not to exceed Eight Million Six 
Hundred Sixty Thousand Dollars ($8,660,000), with a maximum term not to exceed twenty-five (25) years and with 
a maximum interest rate not to exceed five eight percent (5%) (8%) per annum, for the purpose of procuring funds 
to (i) pay all or a portion of the costs of the Project by loaning a portion of the proceeds of the Bonds to the 
Developer and (ii) pay all incidental expenses incurred on account of the issuance of the Bonds. The Bonds shall 
be payable as to principal and interest solely from an eighty percent (80%) pledge of the TIF Revenues on a

=== 2021-09-13 minutes, page 42 of 102 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 46 
subordinate basis, upon such terms and conditions as otherwise provided in the Financing Documents and this 
Ordinance.  The Bonds shall never constitute a general obligation of, an indebtedness of, or charge against the 
general credit of the City. 
 
Councillor Boots asked for consent to abstain from voting on Proposal No. 222, 2021, along with 
any motions, to avoid the appearance of a conflict of interest.  Consent was given. 
 
Proposal No. 222, 2021 was amended on the following roll call vote; viz: 
 
22 YEAS: Adamson, Bain, Barth, Brown, Carlino, Dilk, Evans-E, Evans-J, Graves, Gray, Hart, 
Jackson, Jones, Larrison, Lewis, Mascari, McCormick, Oliver, Osili, Potts, Ray, Robinson 
0 NAYS:  
2 NOT VOTING: Boots, Mowery 
1 ABSENT: Annee 
 
Councillor Hart said that he has reservations about half the city ’s debt being in downtown TIFs.  
He sai d that they continue to create a perpetual rent cycle instead of creating economic 
opportunities for homeownership.  Low rents cause people to get stuck in a cycle, and they need to 
focus on creating more home ownership opportunities.   
 
Councillor Lewis moved, seconded by Councillor Adamson, for adoption, as amended.  Proposal 
No. 222, 2021, as amended, was adopted on the following roll call vote; viz: 
 
21 YEAS : Adamson, Bain, Barth, Brown, Carlino, Dilk, Evans -E, Evans -J, Graves, Gray, 
Jackson, Jones, Larrison, Lewis, Mascari, McCormick, Oliver, Osili, Potts, Ray, Robinson 
1 NAY: Hart 
2 NOT VOTING: Boots, Mowery 
1 ABSENT: Annee 
 
Proposal No. 222, 2021, as amend ed, was retitled SPECIAL ORDINANCE NO. 11, 2021, and 
reads as follows: 
 
CITY-COUNTY SPECIAL ORDINANCE NO. 11, 2021 
 
A SPECIAL ORDINANCE authorizing the City of Indianapolis, Indiana, to issue one or more series of its City of Indianapolis, 
Indiana, Economic Development Tax Increment Revenue Bonds, Series 2021 (Federally Taxable – Rise on Meridian Project) 
(with such further series or other designation as determined to be necessary, desirable or appropriate), in a maximum aggregate 
principal amount not to exceed Eight Million Six Hundred Sixty Thousand Dollars ($8,660,000), for the purpose of providing 
funds to pay the costs of the Project (as defined herein) and approving and authorizing other actions in respect thereto. 
 
WHEREAS, Indiana Code 36-7-11.9 and 12 (collectively, the “Act”) declares that the financing and refinancing of 
economic development facilities constitutes a public purpose; and 
 
WHEREAS, pursuant to the Act, the City of Indianapolis, Indiana (the “City”) is authorized to issue revenue bonds 
for the purpose of financing, reimbursing or refinancing the costs of acquisition, construction,  renovation, installation 
and equipping of economic development facilities in order to foster diversification of economic development and creation 
or retention of opportunities for gainful employment in or near the City; and 
 
WHEREAS, TWG Development, LLC, and/or one or more subsidiaries, affiliates, designees and/or joint ventures 
thereof (collectively, the “Developer”) desires to finance certain projects, additions or improvements within the City, including 
all or any portion of: (a) the acquisition, construction, equipping and preservation of a mixed-use apartment building consisting 
of 269 multifamily units atop a 58,490 +/- square foot concrete podium, which will house resident amenities, parking and 
commercial/retail location; and (b) all acquisition, construction, demolition, renovation, improvement, excavation, utility 
relocation and/or equipping costs related to the projects described in clause (a), including, but not limited to certain 
streetscape and sidewalk projects and improvements (collectively, the “Project”); and

=== 2021-09-13 minutes, page 43 of 102 ===
September 13, 2021 
 
 47  
WHEREAS, the Project will be located at approximately 915 South Meridian Street, Indianapolis, Indiana, which is in 
City-County Council District 16, and is, or will be, located in, serving or physically connected to an allocation area, known as 
the South Meridian Allocation Area (the “Allocation Area”), previously created by the Metropolitan Development Commission 
of Marion County, Indiana (the “Metropolitan Development Commission”), acting as the Redevelopment Commission of the 
City; and 
 
WHEREAS, the Developer has advised the Indianapolis Economic Development Commission (the “Economic 
Development Commission”) and the City concerning the Project, and has requested that the City issue one or more series 
of its taxable Economic Development Tax Increment Revenue Bonds, Series 2021 (Federally Taxable – Rise on Meridian 
Project) (with such further or different series designation as may be necessary, desirable or appropriate, including such 
series designation to indicate the year in which the bonds are issued) (the “Bonds”), in an aggregate principal amount not 
to exceed Eight Million Six Hundred Sixty Thousand Dollars ($8,660,000), for the purpose of providing funds for (i) paying 
all or a portion of the costs of the Project by loaning a portion of the proceeds of the Bonds to the Developer and (ii) 
paying all incidental expenses incurred on account of the issuance of the Bonds; and 
 
WHEREAS, the Economic Development Commission has rendered a report concerning the proposed financing of 
the Project as an economic development facility for the Developer and the Metropolitan Developmen t Commission, as 
Plan Commission, and the Superintendent of the Indianapolis Public Schools have been given the opportunity to comment 
thereon; and 
 
WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 24 of the Act, following a public hearing held on July 14, 2021, the Economic 
Development Commission found that the financing of the Project complies with the purposes and provisions of the Act 
and that such financing will be of benefit to the health and welfare of the City; and 
 
WHEREAS, the Economic Development Commission has determined that the financing will not have an adverse 
competitive effect or impact on any similar facility or facility of the same kind already constructed or operating in the 
same market area or in or about Marion County, Indiana; and 
 
WHEREAS, pursuant to and in accordance with the Act, the City desires to provide funds necessary to finance all 
or a portion of the Project by issuing the Bonds; and 
 
WHEREAS, the Act provides that such revenue bonds may be secured by a trust indenture between an issuer and 
a corporate trustee; and 
 
WHEREAS, the City intends to issue the Bonds consistent with the terms of this Ordinance and pursuant to a 
Trust Indenture, to be dated the fi rst day of the month in which the Bonds are sold or delivered (or such other date as 
the officers of the City may hereafter approve) (the “Indenture”), by and between the City and a corporate trustee to be 
selected by the City (the “Trustee”), in order to obtain funds necessary to provide for the financing of all or a portion 
of the Project, in accordance with the terms of a Financing Agreement, to be dated the first day of the month in which 
the Bonds are sold or delivered (or such other date as the office rs of the City may hereafter approve) (the “Financing 
Agreement”), by and between the City and the Developer with respect to the Bonds and the Project, and a Project 
Agreement between the City and the Developer, with respect to the Bonds and Project, and o ther such documents as 
deemed necessary; and 
 
WHEREAS, pursuant to the Financing Agreement,  the Developer will make certain representations, warranties 
and commitments with respect to the Project and the use of the proceeds of the Bonds to be provided to the Developer 
in accordance with the terms thereof; and 
 
WHEREAS, no member of the City -County Council has any pecuniary interest in any employment, financing 
agreement or other contract made under the provisions of the Act and related to the Bonds authoriz ed herein, which 
pecuniary interest has not been fully disclosed to the City-County Council and no such member has voted on any such 
matter, all in accordance with the provisions of Indiana Code 36-7-12-16; and 
 
WHEREAS, the Economic Development Commissio n has heretofore approved the forms of the Bonds, the 
Indenture and the Financing Agreement  (collectively, the “Financing Documents”), and approved and recommended 
the City-County Council’s adoption of a form of this proposed Ordinance, which were incorporated by reference in the 
Economic Development Commission’s Resolution adopted on July 14, 2021, which Resolution has been transmitted 
hereto; and 
 
WHEREAS, prior to the issuance of the Bonds, the Metropolitan Development Commission will pledge  up to 
eighty percent (80%) of the tax increment revenues from the Project (the “TIF Revenues”) to the payment of the Bonds 
and other matters in furtherance of the Project on a subordinate basis to the  prior payment of existing bonds or other

=== 2021-09-13 minutes, page 44 of 102 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 48 
obligations to which such TIF Revenues are pledged and that the pledge of TIF Revenues will not exceed the debt 
service on the Bonds; and 
 
WHEREAS, based upon the resolution adopted by the Economic Development Commission pertaining to the 
Project, the City -County Council her eby fin ds and determines that the funding approved by the Economic 
Development Commission for all or a portion of the Project will be of benefit to the health and general welfare of 
the citizens of the City, complies with the provisions of the Act and the amount necessary to finance all or a portion 
of the costs of the Project, together with incidental expenses incurred in connection therewith, will require the 
issuance, sale and delivery of one or more series of taxable economic development tax increment r evenue bonds in 
an aggregate combined principal amount not to exceed Eight Million Six Hundred Sixty Thousand Dollars ($8,660,000). 
 
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE  
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA: 
 
SECTION 1. It is he reby found, determined, ratified and confirmed that the financing of the economic development 
facilities referred to in the Financing Documents consisting of the Project, the issuance and sale of the Bonds, and the 
loan of the net proceeds thereof to  the Developer to finance all or a portion of the Project, will: (i) result in the 
diversification of industry, the creation or retention of business opportunities and the creation or retention of 
opportunities for gainful employment within the jurisdictio n of the City;  (ii) serve a public purpose, and will be of 
benefit to the health and general welfare of the City; (iii) comply with the purposes and provisions of the Act and it is 
in the public interest that the City take such lawful action as determined to be necessar y or desirable to encourage the 
diversification of industry, the creation or retention of business opportunities, and the creation or retention of 
opportunities for gainful employment within the jurisdiction of the City; and (iv) not have a m aterial advers e 
competitive effect on any similar facilities already constructed or operating in or near the City.  
 
SECTION 2. The forms of the Financing Documents presented herewith are hereby approved and all such documents 
shall be kept on file by the Clerk of the City-County Council (the “Clerk”) or the Controller of the City (the “Controller”). 
In compliance with Indiana Code 36- 1-5-4, two (2) copies of the Financing Documents are on file in the office of the 
Clerk for public inspection. 
 
SECTION 3. Th e City is auth orized to issue the Bonds in one or more series, any series of which may be taxable for 
federal income tax purposes, in the maximum aggregate principal amount not to exceed Eight Million Six Hundred Sixty 
Thousand Dollars ($8,660,000), with a maximum term not to exceed twenty-five (25) years and with a maximum interest 
rate not to exceed eight percent (8%) per annum, for the purpose of procuring funds to (i) pay all or a portion of the costs 
of the Project by loaning a portion of the proceeds of the Bonds t o the Developer and (ii) pay all incidental expenses 
incurred on account of the issuance of the Bonds. The Bonds shall be payable as to principal and interest solely from an 
eighty percent (80%) pledge of the TIF Revenues on a subordinate bas is, upon such terms and conditions as otherwise 
provided in the Financing Documents and this Ordinance.  The Bonds shall never constitute a general obligation of, an 
indebtedness of, or charge against the general credit of the City. 
 
SECTION 4. The Mayor and the Clerk are authorized and directed to execute the Financing Documents, and the Mayor, the 
Controller, the Clerk and any other officer of the City are authorized and directed to execute such other documents approved 
or authorized herein and any other document which may be necessary, appropriate or desirable to consummate the transaction 
contemplated by the Financing Documents and this Ordinance, and their execution is hereby confirmed on behalf of the City. 
The signatures of the Mayor and the Clerk on the Bonds, and their execution is hereby confirmed on behalf of the City. The 
signatures of the Mayor and the Clerk on the Bonds may be facsimile signatures. The Mayor, the Clerk, the Controller and 
any other officer of the City are authorized to arrange for the delivery of the Bonds to the purchaser, payment for which will 
be made in the manner set forth in the Financing Documents. The Mayor and the Clerk may, by their execution of the Financing 
Documents requiring their signatures and imprinting of their facsimile signatures thereon, approve any and all such changes 
therein and also in those Financing Documents which do not require the signature of the Mayor or the Clerk without further 
approval of this City-County Council or the Economic Development Commission if such changes do not affect terms set forth 
in Sections 27(a)(1) through and including (a)(10) of the Act. 
 
SECTION 5. The provisions of this Ordinance and the Financing Documents shall constitute a contract binding between the 
City and the holder or holders of the Bonds and after the issuance of said Bonds, this Ordinance shall not be repealed or amended 
in any respect which would adversely affect the right of such holder or holders so long as said Bonds or the interest thereon 
remains unpaid. 
 
SECTION 6. The Mayor, the Controller and the Clerk, or any other officer having responsibility with respect to the issuance 
of the Bonds, are authorized and directed, alone or in conjunction with any of the foregoing, or with any other officer, 
employee, consultant or agent of the City, to deliver a certificate for inclusion in the transcript of proceedings for the Bonds,

=== 2021-09-13 minutes, page 45 of 102 ===
September 13, 2021 
 
 49  
setting forth the facts, estimates and circumstances and reasonable expectations pertaining to the use of the Bond proceeds as 
of the date of issuance thereof. 
 
SECTION 7. No recourse under or upon any obligation, covenant, acceptance or agreement contained in this Ordinance, the 
Financing Documents or under any judgment obtained against the City, including without limitation its Econom ic 
Development Commission, or by the enforcement of any assessment or by any legal or equitable proceeding by virtue of any 
constitution or statute or otherwise, or under any circumstances, under or independent of the Financing Agreement, shall be 
had against any member, director, or officer or attorney, as such, past, present, or future, of the City, including without 
limitation its Economic Development Commission, either directly or through the City, or otherwise, for the payment for or 
to the City or any receiver thereof or for or to any holder of the Bonds secured thereby, or otherwise, of any sum that may 
remain due and unpaid by the City upon any of the Bonds. Any and all personal liability of every nature, whether at common 
law or in equity, or by statute or by constitution or otherwise, of any such member, director, or officer or attorney, as such, to 
respond by reason of any act or omission on his or her part or otherwise for, directly or indirectly, the payment for or to the 
City or any receiver thereof, or for or to any owner or holder of the Bonds, or otherwise, of any sum that may remain due and 
unpaid upon the Bonds hereby secured or any at them, shall be expressly waived and released as a condition of and 
consideration for the execution and delivery of the Financing Agreement and the issuance, sale and delivery of the Bonds. 
 
SECTION 8. If any section, paragraph or provision of this Ordinance shall be held to be invalid or unenforceable for 
any reason, the invalidity or unenforceability of such section, paragraph or provision shall not affect any of the remaining 
provisions of this Ordinance. 
 
SECTION 9. All ordinances, resolutions and orders or parts thereof, in conflict with the provisions of this Ordinance 
are, to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed. 
 
SECTION 10. It is hereby determined that all formal actions of the City-County Council relating to the adoption of this 
Ordinance were taken in one or more open meetings of the Council, that all deliberations of the City-County Council and of its 
committees, if any, which resulted in formal action, were in meetings open to the public, and that all such meetings were 
convened, held and conducted in compliance with applicable legal requirements, including Indiana Code 5-14-1.5, as amended. 
 
SECTION 11. The Mayor, the Controller, the Clerk and any other officer of the City are hereby authorized and directed, in the 
name and on behalf of the City, to execute, attest and deliver such further instruments and documents, and to take such further 
actions, in the name of the City as in their judgment shall be necessary or advisable in order fully to consummate the transactions 
described herein and carry out the purposes of this Ordinance, and any such documents heretofore executed and delivered and 
any such actions heretofore taken, be, and hereby are, ratified and approved. The Mayor or his designee is hereby authorized 
to enter into one or more project agreements with the Developer, on terms and conditions acceptable to the Mayor, together 
with any changes as may be necessary, desirable or appropriate, which shall be evidenced by his execution thereof. 
 
SECTION 12. This Ordinance shall be in full force and effect upon adoption and compliance with Indiana Code 36-3-4-
14. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 256, 2021.  Councillor Robinson reporte d that the Public Safety and Criminal 
Justice Committee heard Proposal No. 256, 2021 on August 18, 2021.  The proposal, sponsored by 
Councillors Robinson and Mowery, approves and authorize s the execution of an Interlocal 
Agreement for the Indianapolis Fire  Department (IFD) to provide fire protection and prevention 
services to excluded city, Beech Grove, Indiana for a fee, in order to provide efficiencies for both 
the City and Beech Grove.  By an 13-0 vote, the Committee reported the proposal to the Council 
with the recommendation that it do pass.   
 
Councillors Mascari and Brown expressed their excitement over this agreement and stated that 
they wholeheartedly support the proposal.   
 
Councillor Robinson moved, seconded by Councillor Adamson, for adoption.  Proposal No. 256, 
2021, as amended, was adopted on the following roll call vote; viz: 
23 YEAS: Adamson, Bain, Barth, Boots, Brown, Carlino, Dilk, Evans-E, Evans-J, Graves, Gray, 
Hart, Jackson, Jones, Larrison, Lewis, Mascari, McCormick, Oliver, Osili, Pott s, Ray, 
Robinson 
0 NAYS:  
1 NOT VOTING: Mowery 
1 ABSENT: Annee

=== 2021-09-13 minutes, page 46 of 102 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 50 
 
Proposal No. 256, 2021, as amended, was retitled G ENERAL RESOLUTION NO. 10, 2021, and 
reads as follows: 
 
CITY-COUNTY GENERAL RESOLUTION NO. 10, 2021 
 
PROPOSAL FOR A GENERAL RESOLUTION to approve and authorize the execution of an Interlocal Agreement for 
the Indianapolis Fire Department (IFD) to provide fire protection and prevention services to excluded city, Beech Grove, 
Indiana. 
 
WHEREAS, IFD and BGFD currently have mutual aid agreements for fire protection services; and 
 
WHEREAS, IFD fire runs into Beech Grove compromise a substantial amount of IFD resources and manpower; 
and  
 
WHEREAS, Indiana law permits municipalities to enter into Interlocal Agreements for fire prevention and 
protection services; and  
 
WHEREAS, at this time, Indiana law does not provide a mechanism by which an excluded city in Marion County 
can consolidate its fire prevention and protection services with Indianapolis; and 
 
WHEREAS, representative from both cities have met to draft the Interlocal Agreement attached to this 
Resolution.  Beech Grove Mayor Dennis Buckley, the Chiefs of Fire for each city, and Local 416 a re all in 
support of this Agreement.  The Office of Finance and Management has approved amount of compensation to 
be paid to Indianapolis; and  
 
WHEREAS, substantial operational efficiencies, a reduction of administrative costs, and economies of scale 
may be obtained through entering into this Agreement;  and 
 
WHEREAS, the purpose of this Agreement is for Indianapolis to provide fire prevention and protection 
services to Beech Grove in exchange for monetary compensation and other assets. In addition, firefighter 
personnel shall become employed by Indianapolis which shall also accept administrative and financial 
management of the pensions of those personnel; and    
 
WHEREAS, a substantially similar Resolution has, or will be, introduced to the Beech Grove Comm on 
Council for its approval; and   
 
WHEREAS, the City-County Council finds that  entering into this Agreement serves the public interest by 
resulting in the provision of an enhanced level of public safety and fire prevention and protection services,  with 
greater efficiency and at a lower cost; now, therefore: 
 
BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE 
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA: 
 
SECTION 1. The City-County Council hereby approves the Interlocal Agreement attached to this Resolution.  Upon 
approval of a substantially similar Resolution approved by the Beech Grove Common Council, City of Indianapolis 
personnel are authorized to execute the Agreement in substantially similar form with such changes and may be 
determined to be reasonably warranted. 
 
SECTION 2. This resolution shall be in effect from and after its passage by the Council and compliance with Indiana 
Code § 36-3-4-14.
 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 257, 2021.  Councillor Robinson reported that the Public Safety and Criminal 
Justice Committee heard Proposal No. 257, 2021 on August 18, 2021.  The proposal, sponsored by 
Councillor Mascari , amends t he C ode to clarify provisions regarding the Indianapolis Fire 
Department, reflect the prevailing operations of the department, and make technical corrections .  
By a 13-0 vote, the Committee reported the proposal to the Council with the recommendation that 
it do pass as amended.

=== 2021-09-13 minutes, page 47 of 102 ===
September 13, 2021 
 
 51  
Councillor Robinson recognized Chief Ernest Malone, Indianapolis Fire Department, and stated 
that they are recognized not just in the state, but in the country, and e ven internationally.  Chief 
Malone thanked Robinson for the recognition and stated that their firefighters are the best working 
on the front line, and they have a great working relationship with the Local 416 Firefighters Union, 
as well.   
 
Councillor Robinson moved, seconded by Councillor Adamson, for adoption.  Proposal No. 257, 
2021 was adopted on the following roll call vote; viz: 
 
23 YEAS: Adamson, Bain, Barth, Boots, Brown, Carlino, Dilk, Evans-E, Evans-J, Graves, Gray, 
Hart, Jackson, Jones, Larrison, Lewis, Mascari, McCormick, Oliver, Osili, Potts, Ray, 
Robinson 
0 NAYS:  
1 NOT VOTING: Mowery 
1 ABSENT: Annee 
 
Proposal No. 257, 2021 was retitled GENERAL ORDINANCE NO. 33, 2021, and reads as follows: 
 
CITY-COUNTY GENERAL ORDINANCE NO. 33, 2021 
 
PROPOSAL FOR A GENERAL ORDINANCE to amend the Revised Code to clarify provisions regarding the Indianapolis 
Fire Department, reflect the prevailing operations of the department, and make technical corrections.    
 
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE 
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA: 
 
SECTION 1.  Chapter 252 “Indianapolis Fire Department” of the Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County, hereby 
is amended by the deletion of the language that is stricken-through, and by the addition of the language that is underscored, to 
read as follows: 
 
Sec. 252-101. Definitions. 
 
As used in this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section.  
 
Chief or Chief of Fire means the chief executive officer of the Indianapolis fire department appointed pursuant to 
this article.  
 
Civilian fire merit board or merit board means the Indianapolis fire department Merit Board created pursuant to this 
chapter.  
 
Department means the Indianapolis fire department.  
 
Employee means a regularly employed civilian employee of the Indianapolis fire department.  
 
Fire special service district means the special service district created pursuant to IC 36-3-1-6 and section 111-3 of 
the Code.  
 
Member or firefighter means a regularly employed firefighter of the Indianapolis fire department.  
 
Merit rank means all promotions to the rank of lieutenant, captain, and battalion chief made in accordance with the 
Indianapolis fire department's merit system.  
 
Non-suppression division means all firefighters assigned to work an average of one hundred and twenty (120) hours 
in a twenty-one-day work period at various Indianapolis fire department worksites other than fire stations.  
 
Suppression division means all department firefighters assigned to work one hundred and forty-four (144) hours in 
a twenty-one-day work period.

=== 2021-09-13 minutes, page 48 of 102 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 52 
 Sec. 252-102. Indianapolis fire department; jurisdiction, powers, and duties. 
 
 (a) The Indianapolis fire department shall have the authority and jurisdiction throughout the fire special service 
district and such other territory where the department provides fire protection services as provided by law.  
 
 (b) It shall be the duty of the Indianapolis fire department to suppress all fires that occur in the fire special service 
district and such other territory, to prevent the occurrence and spread of such fires, to provide emergency medical services 
and rescue operations, and to investigate fires. 
  
 (c) The department shall have all powers prescribed in chapter 591 of this Code and all other powers necessary to 
fulfill these duties and any other powers granted by law, the city-county council or the mayor.  
 
Sec. 252-103. Appointment and qualifications of chief; powers and duties. 
 
 (a) The mayor shall appoint a chief of the Indianapolis fire department subject to city-county council confirmation 
who serves at the pleasure of the mayor and reports directly to the mayor.  
 
 (b) The chief may be selected from members of the department who hold the permanent merit rank of captain or 
above on the basis of prior training and experience, and shall have a minimum of fourteen (14) ten (10) years of service 
with the department, which time period shall include a person’s an individual's service as a full-time, paid member of 
any a fire department that has been consolidated into the department.  
 
 (c) The chief may be selected from past members of the department or from members or past members of a fire 
department other than the department only if he or she has:  
 
  (1) Met the following educational requirements:  
 
        a. A bachelor's or master's degree from an accredited institution of higher education in fire science, 
management, public administration or a related field; or;  
 
        b. A bachelor's degree from an accredited institution of higher education in a non-related field: and  
 
i. An associate's degree in fire science; or  
 
ii. An executive fire officer designation from the National Fire Academy or its successor institution; or 
 
iii. A chief fire officer designation from the Center for Public Safety Excellence or its successor 
 
 (2) Attained fire officer I, II, and III and fire officer II certification;  
 
 (3) At least fourteen (14) ten (10) years of experience in a fire department of a city with a population of one hundred 
thousand (100,000) or more in Indiana, another state, or the District of Columbia; and  
 
 (4) Achieved the merit rank of captain (or its equivalent) or above.  
 
 (d) The chief may appoint any number of executive assistants, who shall hold the temporary rank and title of 
assistant chief, deputy chief, division chief or shift commander as the chief he or she deems necessary to efficiently 
discharge the chief’s his or her executive duties. The chief shall select these executive assistants from among those 
holding the permanent merit rank of captain or above in the department. The appointed ranks of assistant chief, deputy 
chief, division chief and shift commander shall be temporary, and each executive assistant shall retain their his or her 
permanent merit rank, unless promoted in accordance with the merit system. The chief may temporarily appoint and 
assign members of the department to lieutenant, captain, or battalion chief in the non-suppression division, and such 
member's pay grade shall be commensurate with the duties and qualifications required of the member. Such assignment 
shall have no effect on the merit rank of the member.  
 
 The chief shall have general authority over all matters, personnel, and property relating to and connected with the 
department, unless otherwise restricted by law. This authority includes the following powers and duties:  
 
(1) To organize the department and determine and implement policies, methods and means by which operations 
are conducted;  
 
(2) Oversee the daily operation of the department;

=== 2021-09-13 minutes, page 49 of 102 ===
September 13, 2021 
 
 53  
 
(3) Execute contracts on behalf of the department subject to the powers of the mayor, the board of the office of 
public health and safety, and any limitations prescribed by law; 
 
(24) Make general and special rules and regulations for the government and discipline of the department, to the 
extent such duties and powers are not granted to the merit board;  
 
(35) To administer and oversee the department's fire merit system with the mayor as provided by this code, relating 
to appointment, transfer, discipline and removal of members and employees of the department pursuant to 
applicable rules, regulations and laws in accordance with an established merit system;  
 
(46) To enter into contracts with town or township firefighting companies or associations for mutual civil aid and 
assistance programs, life-saving, firefighting, emergency services, ambulance services, mutual 
communications services, coordinating training programs, or central dispatching programs in accordance with 
applicable law;  
 
(57) To purchase, rent or improve any real estate or personal property, subject to appropriations therefor by the city-
county council and subject to the powers of the mayor and the board of public health and safety;  
 
(68) To purchase or obtain necessary supplies, equipment, and services; subject to the authority of the board of the 
office of public safety and purchasing laws;  
 
(79) In conjunction with the mayor, to fix the number of employees, members and reservists of the department;  
 
(810) To temporarily appoint additional personnel on application of any person or corporation in response 
to any emergency, riot or insurrection as declared by the mayor, which persons the director may remove at any 
time without hearing or notice or assigning any cause;  
 
(911) To delegate to the personnel employed in the department authority to act in the chief’s his or her 
behalf as provided in IC 36-3-5-5(c); and  
 
(1012) Any other powers that may be granted by law or by the mayor.  
 
Sec. 252-104. Budget. 
 
 The chief shall prepare and submit an annual budget to the fire special service district council that shall approve or 
modify said budget. The fire special service district council shall appropriate funds to finance the operations and activities 
of the Indianapolis fire department provided for in this article. These appropriated funds shall be deposited with the 
consolidated city controller in an account known as the "Indianapolis fire department account." The chief shall have 
authority to expend, under regular consolidated city procedure in accordance with applicable law, all sums appropriated 
to such account for the purposes, activities and services contemplated by this chapter. At the end of each fiscal year, any 
unexpended portion of such account shall revert to the fire special service district general fund.  
 
Sec. 252-105. Reserved. 
 
Sec. 252-106. Personnel division branch.  
 
 (a) There is hereby created a personnel division branch as a part of the Indianapolis fire department, which shall 
be supervised on a daily basis by a deputy chief director of personnel who shall be appointed by the Cchief of Fire and 
who shall have prior training in personnel management.  
 
 (b) Pursuant to the recommendations of the civilian fire merit board established by this chapter, the director of the 
personnel branch of the department shall appoint such employees of the personnel branch as he or she deems necessary. 
Such employees shall be civilians.  
 
 (bc) Subject to applicable law, and with approval of the civilian fire merit board and chief, the deputy chief director 
supervising of the personnel division branch shall be responsible for the development and implementation of personnel 
management programs within the department. These personnel management programs shall be: merit systems relating to 
member recruitment; applicant screening, testing and selection; job auditing; hiring; performance evaluation; transfer; 
promotion; separation; reemployment career development; discipline; employee relations; grievance procedures; and, 
personnel records management.

=== 2021-09-13 minutes, page 50 of 102 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 54 
Sec. 252-107. Civilian employees. 
 
 (a) The civilian fire merit board shall be authorized to prescribe and promulgate such rules and policies as it deems 
necessary concerning the regulation of civilians on the Indianapolis fire department.       
 The chief, through the personnel division branch, shall hire appoint civilian employees and shall make maximum 
use of civilian employees in positions in the department not requiring firefighters.  
 
 (b) All civilian employees of the department, other than those in appointive positions, shall be considered merit 
employees. All civilian merit personnel management programs shall be administered in accordance with the merit 
systems outlined in section 252-106 above.  
 
 (c) A civilian employee appointed by the chief or the director of the personnel branch shall serve for one (1) year 
from the date of appointment as a probationer, during which time the employment of such employee may be terminated 
by the chief with or without cause, and such termination shall be final and not subject to review. If his or her employment 
is not otherwise terminated, the employee shall become a permanent employee at the end of one (1) year and may be 
subject to discharge or discipline for any cause in conformity with the rules and regulations adopted by the civilian fire 
merit board.  
 
Sec. 252-108. Life and liability insurance. 
 
 The chief shall recommend to the corporation counsel and the office of finance and management appropriate group 
life and disability insurance coverage to cover all members of the Indianapolis fire department. Such insurance coverage 
may be purchased and maintained in reasonable amounts and shall cover only firefighters killed or disabled in the line of 
duty. The chief shall recommend to the corporation counsel and the office of finance and management appropriate 
insurance to indemnify members of the department against liability for injuries or damages to persons or property 
resulting from alleged acts of negligence, wrongful acts or omission of such members while acting within the scope of 
their authority and employment.  
 
Sec. 252-109. Fire protection outside the fire special service district. 
 
 The Indianapolis fire department may provide fire protection or services outside the boundaries of the fire special 
service district, only under the following circumstances and upon the following conditions:  
 
(1) The chief or the mayor may enter into any contract or mutual agreement or understanding with the ranking fire 
officer of any existing municipal or volunteer fire department or with the chief executive officer of any unit of 
government that maintains or finances an established fire department, wherein the agreement provides for the 
mutual assistance between the department and the other fire department such that the ranking officers of the 
respective fire departments may request, when necessary, the assistance without charge to the assisted 
department. The department is authorized to render such assistance as is requested by the ranking officer on 
duty with the respective department so long as the rendering of such assistance shall not endanger the citizens 
of the fire special service district or threaten the ability of the department to render services within the fire 
special service district.  
 
(2) The department, upon approval of the mayor, may enter into a contract with any person, municipality, or other 
governmental unit that is situated at a place not within the fire special service district but within the county and 
that is desirous of contracting with the city for regular fire protection involving the use and services of the 
Indianapolis fire department. The details of such contract shall be specified by the department, but each contract 
must provide that the city furnish on a calendar-year basis so much firefighting service and apparatus as may 
be reasonably necessary on the request of the contracting person, municipality or other governmental unit when 
a fire exists at the premises of such person or within the boundaries of the municipality or governmental unit, 
but that obligation to render such services shall not exist at any time that the same would endanger or threaten 
the services of the Indianapolis fire department to the citizens of the fire special service district. The contract 
shall also provide for a negotiated rate or fees payable as required by the department for the rendering of such 
services and may provide for additional charges based on the actual services and apparatus used in the 
performance of such agreement.  
 
(3) Upon consolidation of a township fire department into the Indianapolis fire department pursuant to IC 36-3-1-
6.1, the department shall provide fire protection or services in the territory where such services were formerly 
provided by the township fire department.

=== 2021-09-13 minutes, page 51 of 102 ===
September 13, 2021 
 
 55  
Sec. 252-201. Civilian fire merit board. 
 
 (a) There is hereby established a civilian fire merit board that shall be composed of four (4) persons members 
appointed by the mayor and two (2) persons members elected by the active members of the Indianapolis fire department 
in accordance with IC 36-8-3.5-1. Each person member serving on of the merit board shall be a registered voter who 
resides within the department's jurisdiction as established by section 252-102 of the Code, and no person member 
appointed or elected to the merit board shall be a firefighter or employee member of the department or of any other police 
or fire department or agency, or hold another elective or appointive office in either a city, town, township, county or state 
government. All persons, whether appointed or elected, shall serve on the merit board for a term of two (2) years, and all 
members, either elected or appointed, shall serve during their respective terms and until their respective successor shall 
be appointed or elected, and qualified. 
 
 The mayor may remove an appointee from the merit board, with or without cause, without right of hearing.  If  a 
mayoral appointee vacancy occurs, the mayor shall appoint a replacement to serve the unexpired term.  If a vacancy 
exists to be filled by the active members of the department, a replacement shall be elected, in accordance with IC 36-8-
2-3.5-8, by the active members to serve the unexpired term.  A person may serve on the merit board for successive terms, 
whether appointed or elected. An appointed member of the merit board may be removed by the mayor, with or without 
cause, without right of hearing. If a vacancy occurs among the members of the merit board appointed by the mayor, the 
mayor shall appoint a replacement to serve the unexpired term. If a vacancy occurs among the members of the merit 
board elected by the active members of the department, a replacement shall be elected by the active members of the 
department in accordance with IC 36-8-3.5-8 to serve the unexpired term. A member of the merit board may be appointed 
or elected for successive terms.  
 
 (b) The chief shall be an ex officio member of the merit board without voting power.  
 
 (c) A quorum for the purpose of taking official action shall consist of 3 persons. Three (3) members of the board 
shall constitute a quorum for the purpose of taking official action; however, in In the event of a tie vote, the 
recommendation of the chief shall be deemed adopted by the board.  
 
 (d) The merit board shall establish rules for its operation. Included in such rules shall be the time and place for 
holding regular monthly meetings and such special meetings throughout the year as may be deemed necessary to transact 
its business. Each year the merit board, with the concurrence of the Chief of Fire director, shall select from its membership 
members a president, vice-president and secretary.  
 
 (e) The merit board shall administer and supervise the merit system established by this article.  
 
 (f) The city-county council, in accordance with IC 36-3-6-6, may provide the board a monthly stipend of fifty 
dollars ($50.00).  
 
Sec. 252-202. Merit selection and procedures. 
 
 (a) Any person, including persons seeking reappointment or reinstatement, shall be appointed to the Indianapolis 
fire department in accordance with the merit selection and appointment procedure created by this section and such rules 
and regulations as may be established by the merit board in accordance with the provisions of this section. Such rules 
and regulations may change the order of their procedure but not the substance of the requirements established by this 
section. Appointment and reappointment to the department shall be made without regard to an applicant's political party 
preference or activity.  
 
 (b) A person An individual may not submit an application, or be appointed, or reappointed as a member of the 
department unless the person individual is at least twenty-one (21) years of age but not yet reached the age of thirty-six 
(36). sixth (36th ) birthday. The age thirty-six limitation shall not apply if the person is a former member or a retired 
member not yet receiving retirement benefits of the 1937 or 1977 fund and can complete twenty (20) years of service 
before reaching sixty (60) years of age as in the case of a firefighter leaving another fire department to be employed as a 
firefighter (member) with the Indianapolis Fire Department.   
 
 The individual applicant must have at least a high school education or equivalent to be eligible to make application 
to become a member of the department, and each applicant must meet minimum fitness/medical standards adopted by 
the department and continue to meet minimum fitness/medical standards, as a condition of employment, while serving 
as a member of the department. The department shall develop job-related minimum standards with the assistance of an 
independent consultant in order to meet applicable federal and state guidelines. All Applicants individuals appointed or 
reappointed to the department must establish residency in compliance with state statute. Marion County or a contiguous

=== 2021-09-13 minutes, page 52 of 102 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 56 
county at the time of such appointment or reappointment. Applicants shall not have been convicted of an offense that is 
a felony under Indiana law. 
  
 Applicants must obtain an application form from the personnel division branch and must comply with the following 
additional requirements:  
 
(1) Applicants must pass a complete physical examination and a psychological examination in accordance with 
state law. The psychological examination shall be given by an individual approved by the state board of 
examiners in psychology or the state board of medical registration. If a written psychological examination is 
administered, such examination shall be approved by the state board of examiners in mental health or the state 
board of medical registration, in accordance with psychological examinations approved by the PERF board in 
consultation with the commissioner of mental health. Applicants may be required to pay up to one-half (½) of 
the costs of the required physical and psychological examinations in accordance with applicable departmental 
rules.  
 
(2) Applicants must pass a written examination to evaluate both aptitude and intellectual capacity for fire work.  
 
(3) Applicants must pass a job-related agility test.  
 
(4) Applicants shall have a structured oral interview as established by the fire merit board.  
 
 The rules and procedures for the above requirements shall be set by the chief with the approval of the merit board.  
 
 (c) The chief, with the approval of the board, shall give a preference for employment to for any the following, all 
of which must be validated by the department:  
 
(1) An applicant A person who has served in the military service and has received an honorable discharge from 
any branch of the service including the Coast Guard (as defined in IC 36-8-4-10); and any participant in the 
Army PaYS Program;  
 
(2) An applicant A person whose mother or father was a firefighter of a unit, municipal police officer, or county 
police officer, who died in the line of duty (as defined in IC 5-10-10-2);  
 
(3) An applicant A person who successfully graduated from a City of Indianapolis or Marion County high school; 
and/or  
 
(4) An applicant A person who is a resident of Marion County as of the date the person submits an application for 
employment;.  
 
(5) An applicant who has graduated from the department’s Arsenal Tech High School, CTC Fire/Rescue program. 
 
 (d) The personnel division branch shall prepare a list of those applicants eligible for appointment ranked in order 
of their total combined score. The written examination shall constitute no more than fifty (50) percent of the applicant's 
total eligibility score. Any combination of the preferences described in subsection (c) of this section shall constitute no 
more than five (5) percent of the applicant's total eligibility score. Prior to the creation of the eligibility list, the personnel 
branch, with approval of the merit board, shall establish the weight of each of the components of the applicant process.  
 
 (e) Beginning with the applicant having the highest eligibility score on the eligibility list, the department shall 
conduct a background investigation into the personal history and character of the applicant. Any information indicating 
that the applicant has engaged in any conduct or activities that would warrant the disqualification of the applicant from 
appointment to the department shall be forwarded to the deputy chief supervising chairman of the personnel division 
branch and shall be made a part of the applicant's file. The file shall be presented by the deputy chief of the personnel 
branch to the merit board, which shall determine whether such conduct or activities are such as to disqualify the applicant 
for appointment.  
 
 (f) Final eligibility lists prepared as the result of an applicant screening process shall be in effect for two (2) years 
or until a new eligibility list for the next process is final, whichever occurs earlier sooner. A new applicant screening 
process shall be initiated by the department no later than eighteen (18) months after a final eligibility list is certified by 
the merit board. The merit board shall establish procedures for the management of the final eligibility lists. Any applicant 
who, personally or through any other person, solicits any member of the merit board to favor the applicant’s his or her 
appointment or reinstatement to the department shall be thereby rendered ineligible for any such appointment.

=== 2021-09-13 minutes, page 53 of 102 ===
September 13, 2021 
 
 57  
Sec. 252-203. Vacancies; training academy for recruits; probationary period. 
 
 (a) The chief shall appoint as recruit trainees such applicant or applicants as are necessary to fill any vacancies that 
exist in the Indianapolis fire department. Eighty (80) percent of such vacancies to be appointed at one time by the chief 
shall be filled by taking the applicant having the highest score on the final eligibility list and proceeding down the list in 
order. The chief shall fill the remaining twenty (20) percent of the vacancies by selecting any person remaining on the 
final eligibility list. In making these selections, the chief shall consider applicants candidates who, in the opinion of the 
chief, are best qualified for appointment based on such considerations as cumulative score on the merit selections 
procedures, and community and legal obligations of the department and the city. Recruit trainees shall be assigned to the 
fire training academy for a training course prescribed by the chief with the approval of the merit board. No recruit trainee 
shall be assigned to regular active duty until the recruit trainee he or she has attended and successfully completed the 
training course so prescribed. Failure to complete the course successfully shall result in dismissal from the department. 
After completing the training course, the recruit trainee shall be elevated to the probationary rank of firefighter and shall 
be assigned to regular active duty. The probationary period shall last for one (1) year of actual service from the date of 
the recruit trainee's graduation from the training academy. Each probationary firefighter shall be evaluated monthly 
during this period by their his or her immediate supervisor pursuant to the evaluation system provided for in this Code. 
The appointment of probationary firefighter to firefighter of the firefighter becomes permanent when the probationary 
firefighter he or she has successfully completed the one-year probationary period.  
 
 (b) While a person an individual is in the status of recruit trainee or probationary firefighter, the chief may terminate 
or temporarily suspend such person an individual for cause, without right to any hearing before the merit board.  
 
Sec. 252-204. Retirement. 
 
 A member of the Indianapolis fire department shall be required to retire from the department consistent with state 
and federal guidelines or upon the member’s his or her failure to meet minimum medical/fitness standards adopted by 
the department. Such minimum medical and fitness medical/fitness standards shall be job-related and established with 
the assistance of an independent consultant to the department.  
 
Sec. 252-205. Rules and regulations of the Indianapolis fire department. 
 
 (a) Within the limits of this Code, the chief, shall prescribe, adopt and put into effect such rules and regulations 
for the governance of the Indianapolis fire department as, from time to time, he or she deems appropriate. Within the 
limits of this Code, the chief, with the approval of the merit board, shall establish a classification of ranks, grades and 
positions in the department and shall designate the authority and responsibilities of each rank, grade and position. The 
chief shall have authority to assign or reassign any member of the department to serve at any department worksite, within 
the limits of the Code, and to perform such duties as he or she shall designate, provided such grade and assignment results 
in no decrease in the firefighter's merit rank, and provided the firefighter's minimum salary is commensurate with the 
firefighter’s his or her merit rank. The chief shall be authorized to make maximum use of civilian employees in any 
position in the department so as to release firefighters to perform essential departmental functions.  
 
(b) Consistent with the terms of section 252-206(a), the chief, in consultation consulation with the mayor, may establish 
a position classification system and a scale of compensation for the various firefighters in the department. The 
compensation so fixed shall be based on the rank held by the firefighter and the special technical competence of the job 
assignment of the firefighter. Any position pay granted to a firefighter shall remain in effect only while such firefighter 
is in such position. The scale of compensation shall be required to apply uniformly to all firefighters' merit rank and 
minimum salary commensurate with the rank.  
 
Sec. 252-206. Merit promotion system.   
 
 (a) There shall be a merit promotion system that shall be administered in accordance with rules and regulations 
adopted by the merit board. This merit promotion system shall apply to all promotions to the ranks of lieutenant, captain 
and battalion chief. It shall not apply to the appointment of the chief by the mayor or to the appointment of assistant chief, 
deputy chiefs, division chiefs and shift commanders by the chief. Within the limits of this Code, the chief, with the 
approval of the merit board, shall set standards for promotion in conformity with the most widely approved standards of 
comparable fire departments and shall establish reasonable prerequisites of training, education and experience for each 
rank, grade and position in the department.  
 
 (b) The following eligibility requirements are established for all individuals seeking promotion within the 
Indianapolis fire department:  
 
(1) Private to lieutenant: To be eligible to participate in the process for promotion to the rank of lieutenant, an

=== 2021-09-13 minutes, page 54 of 102 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 58 
individual must have completed five (5) years of continuous service as a member of the department, which 
time period shall include an individual's service as a full-time, paid member of a fire department that has been 
consolidated into the department. To be eligible for promotion to the rank of lieutenant, an individual must 
have completed eight (8) years of continuous service as a member of the department, which time period shall 
include the firefighter’s an individual's service as a full-time, paid member of a fire department that has been 
consolidated into the department.  
 
(2) Lieutenant to captain: To be eligible for promotion to the rank of captain, an individual must have completed 
three (3) years in the rank of lieutenant and have completed eleven (11) years of continuous service as a member 
of the department, which time periods shall include an individual's service as a full-time, paid member of a fire 
department that has been consolidated into the department.  
 
(3) Captain to battalion chief: To be eligible for promotion to the rank of battalion chief, an individual must have 
completed three (3) years in the rank of captain and have completed fourteen (14) years of continuous service 
as a member of the department, which time periods shall include an individual's service as a full-time, paid 
member of a fire department that has been consolidated into the department.  
 
 In determining years of service for promotion eligibility to the next merit rank, all time served from the candidate's 
date of appointment shall be considered. However, if a firefighter is demoted, no time served in a rank prior to the 
demotion shall be considered in determining years of service for promotion eligibility. The merit board shall resolve any 
issue relating to the determination of a firefighter's years of service. A member shall be promoted only to the next highest 
rank.  
 
 (c) The merit board, in conjunction with the chief, shall establish process phases and procedures for use in selecting 
candidates for promotion to the various ranks. The board may use the services of professional consultants from outside 
the department to assist in developing and administering the process. The process phases shall be established in 
conformity with standard psychometric procedures, federal and state guidelines relating to selection methods, equal 
employment opportunity laws, and generally accepted standards for fire departments. Weightings of the components of 
the process shall be established by the department, using the services of professional consultants prior to the inception of 
the process with the acceptance of the merit board. The process may include, but is not limited to, such phases as a written 
examination, structured interviews, performance evaluations, and/or assessment center techniques, as structured to 
accommodate the various rank levels.  
 
 (d) Final eligibility lists prepared as the result of a promotion process shall be in effect for three (3) years or until 
a new eligibility list for the next process is final, whichever occurs sooner. A new promotion process shall be initiated 
by the department no later than twenty-four (24) months after a final promotion list is certified by the merit board.  
 
 (e) Promotions shall be made by the chief with the approval of the merit board. Such promotions shall be made to 
position vacancies identified by the chief and designated to be filled by the chief. In making final selections for promotion, 
the chief shall promote the candidate who, in the opinion of the chief and merit board, is best qualified for the position 
based on such considerations as cumulative score on the merit selections procedures, the qualifications of the candidate 
for promotion, and community and legal obligations of the department and the city. The merit board shall establish 
guidelines, policies and procedures for the administration of the promotion process, and such guidelines, policies and 
procedures shall be posted in all department work sites and a copy provided to the public safety committee of the city-
county council prior to the inception of the process.  
 
 (f) All promotions to the ranks of lieutenant, captain and battalion chief shall be made in accordance with this 
merit system, without regard to the candidate's political party preference or activities. Any member of the department 
who, personally or through any other person, solicits any member of the merit board to favor their his or her promotion 
shall be thereby rendered ineligible for any such promotion.  
 
 (g) The chief of fire may make staff appointments in the suppression division for positions requiring special 
certifications, skills and/or training. These positions may include, but are not limited to, EMS duty officers and fire 
investigators. These appointments shall not be made to circumvent the department's established seniority bidding or merit 
systems that shall be adhered to in compliance with department general orders and labor agreements.  
 
 (h) In instances in which the officer assigned to an apparatus or station is temporarily absent due to illness, 
vacation, training or other reason, a firefighter may be temporarily assigned to fulfill the responsibilities of the absent 
officer.  
 
 (i) Upon a consolidation of a fire department into the Indianapolis fire department pursuant to IC 36-3-1-6.1 that 
results in the addition of a new battalion, any merit captain who was acting as a battalion commander for the fire

=== 2021-09-13 minutes, page 55 of 102 ===
September 13, 2021 
 
 59  
department shall be allowed to remain as an acting battalion commander if he or she participates in the next process for 
promotion to battalion chief and successfully completes all components of that promotion process. If the acting battalion 
commander chooses not to participate in or does not successfully complete all components of that promotion process, he 
or she shall immediately vacate the acting battalion commander position. Once a promotion list is certified by the merit 
board, an acting battalion commander, who has successfully completed all components of the promotion process, shall 
immediately vacate that position and return to the merit rank of captain, unless he or she is promoted to battalion chief 
in the first group of promotions made from the certified promotion list.  
 
Sec. 252-207. Evaluations. 
 
 The chief, with the approval of the merit board and with the assistance of the personnel division branch, shall 
establish a system for the evaluation of the performance of each member of the department. The personnel division branch 
shall maintain a record of all evaluations of each member under this system.  
 
Sec. 252-208. Discipline. 
 
 (a) The chief shall have the ultimate authority to discipline all members of the Indianapolis fire department, subject 
to the authority of the merit board.  However, that authority may be delegated by the chief in accordance with the 
provisions contained in this section. The authority of the chief to discipline shall be subject only to the firefighter's right 
of appeal to the fire merit board as provided herein.  
 
 (b) All disciplinary matters within the department shall be based on one (1) or more of the following infractions:  
 
(1) Violation of any rule, regulation, or order of the department;  
 
(2) Any breach of discipline;  
 
(3) Insubordination;  
 
(4) Neglect of duty;  
 
(5) Immoral conduct;  
 
(6) Conduct unbecoming a firefighter;  
 
(7) Substandard performance;  
 
(8) Violation, with the determination by the chief, of any federal, state or local law; and  
 
(9) Failure to cooperate or be truthful.  
 
 (c) A firefighter may be placed on leave with pay for up to thirty (30) calendar days by the chief pending 
determination of final disciplinary action. Such leave with pay shall be considered a duty status and not a punishment.  
 
 (d) The delegation by the chief of the authority to discipline shall not exceed the following:  
 
(1)   Any deputy or assistant chief may suspend any subordinate firefighter for up to a total of eighty (80) working 
hours, with or without pay, which suspension shall be reviewed by the disciplinary board of battalion chiefs, 
and ultimately reviewed by the chief. The suspended firefighter may be subject to reinstatement with pay by 
the chief at any time.  
 
(2)  Any division chief may suspend any subordinate firefighter for up to a total of forty-eight (48) working hours, 
with or without pay, which suspension shall be reviewed by the disciplinary board of battalion chiefs, and 
ultimately reviewed by the chief. The suspended firefighter may be subject to reinstatement with pay by the 
chief at any time.  
 
(3)  Any battalion chief may suspend any subordinate firefighter for up to a total of twenty-four (24) working hours, 
with or without pay, which suspension shall be reviewed by the disciplinary board of battalion chiefs, and 
ultimately reviewed by the chief. The suspended firefighter may be subject to reinstatement with pay by the 
chief at any time.  
 
 (e) Firefighters who are classified by the department as exempt executive, administrative or professional

=== 2021-09-13 minutes, page 56 of 102 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 60 
employees pursuant to the provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act are not subject to unpaid disciplinary suspensions 
other than for violations of safety rules of major significance unless the suspension is for the period of an entire workweek 
or a specified number of full workweeks.  
 
 (f) A disciplinary board of battalion chiefs, referred to in this section as the disciplinary board, shall assist the chief 
in departmental disciplinary matters. The board shall be subordinate and advisory to the chief and shall consist of three 
(3) member firefighters with the permanent merit rank of battalion chief. Board members shall be selected at random and 
shall serve as a board for a term not to exceed six (6) months. A new board shall be impaneled every six (6) months. No 
battalion chief shall serve as a member of the board in consecutive six-month periods.  
 
(1) Following the suspension of a firefighter by the chief for a period greater than eighty (80) working hours or 
any suspension of a firefighter by an assistant chief, the chief shall appoint a firefighter to gather all of the 
pertinent facts and to investigate the event surrounding the suspension. The results of that investigation shall 
be reported to the chief, to the disciplinary board and to the chairman of the personnel division branch for 
inclusion in the firefighter's personnel record. The chief, or the chief's designee may cause the firefighter to be 
brought before the disciplinary board for a hearing based upon any charges. Alternately, the chief, in his or her 
discretion, may also cause the firefighter to appear directly before the merit board for a hearing.  
 
(2) Any firefighter subject to a hearing before the disciplinary board shall be notified in writing of the charges and 
of the time and date of the hearing. Such notice must be given by the board at least five (5) days prior to such 
hearing. In addition, the firefighter has the right to have witnesses subpoenaed by the disciplinary board to 
testify in the firefighter’s his or her behalf upon forty-eight (48) hours' advance notice to the board. by providing 
If the firefighter requests that witnesses be subpoenaed, he or she shall provide a list of such witnesses to the 
board and to the deputy chief supervising chairman of the personnel division branch, who shall prepare and 
deliver the subpoenas on behalf of the board. All testimony at this hearing shall be under oath. Any firefighter, 
or other department employee, testifying appearing at this hearing, whether as an accused or as a witness, shall 
cooperate fully with the disciplinary board and answer all questions truthfully and directly. In such hearings, 
and pursuant to departmental policy, the subject firefighter shall have the right to have legal counsel.  
 
(3) The hearing before the disciplinary board shall be conducted in accordance with written directives of the chief. 
The disciplinary board shall, by a majority vote, make a finding of sustained or not sustained guilty or not 
guilty and reduce it to writing. If the finding is sustained guilty, the board shall also make a its recommendations 
of for appropriate disciplinary action. punishment. The findings and recommendations shall then be referred to 
the chief or the chief’s his or her designee for his determination and shall be made available to the subject 
accused firefighter.  
 
(4) After receiving the findings and recommendations, the chief or the chief's designee may, with or without 
hearings, either concur with the disciplinary board or may reverse the board in full or in part. After making a 
his or her determination, the chief or the chief's designee may:  
 
a. Suspend the firefighter without pay for up to six (6) months. If the suspension does not exceed a total 
of eighty (80) working hours, suspension shall be without the right of appeal to the fire merit board. That 
portion of any suspension exceeding a total of eighty (80) working hours may be appealed to the fire merit 
board within thirty (30) calendar days;  
 
b. Demote the firefighter in rank; however, any demotion may be appealed to the fire merit board within 
thirty (30) calendar days;  
 
c. Recommend to the merit board that the firefighter be terminated, in which case the merit board shall 
consider such a recommendation in the same manner as an appeal of a chief's determination for suspension or 
demotion;  
 
d. Reprimand the firefighter verbally or in writing;  
 
e. Reinstate with pay any firefighter who has been previously suspended without pay.  
 
(5)  A copy of the findings of fact and recommendations of the disciplinary board as well as the chief's 
determination shall be made a permanent part of the subject firefighter's personnel record. A copy of all of 
these findings of fact and recommendations as well as the chief's determination shall also be referred to the 
director within fourteen (14) days.  
 
 (g) Appeals to the merit board shall be handled in the following manner:

=== 2021-09-13 minutes, page 57 of 102 ===
September 13, 2021 
 
 61  
 
(1) Any member of the department may appeal the following determinations to the fire merit board within thirty 
(30) calendar days of such determination:  
 
a. That portion of any suspension without pay exceeding eighty (80) working hours;  
b. Any demotion in rank.  
c. A recommendation of termination. 
 
(2) The hearing before the merit board shall be an administrative hearing, shall be de novo and shall be a hearing 
of record. The evidence before the merit board shall consist of the findings of fact and recommendations of the 
disciplinary board of battalion chiefs if such disciplinary board is convened, the written charges and the 
determination of the fire chief upon those charges, and any other evidence requested by the merit board, 
presented by the subject aggrieved firefighter, or presented by the chief.  
 
(3) Any firefighter appealing any decision of the chief shall be given notice at least fourteen (14) calendar days 
prior to the hearing before the merit board.  
 
(4) The appealing firefighter may be represented by legal counsel before the merit board, and the chief shall be 
represented by the corporation counsel or the chief’s his or her designee.  
 
(5) The merit board may fully or partially affirm or completely reverse any portion of the chief's determination 
that is appealable. In the case of a demotion, the merit board may demote a firefighter only one (1) permanent 
rank at any one (1) time. The merit board may order any firefighter reinstated with pay for any appealable 
suspension. In addition, the merit board may remand the action for further review by the chief.  
 
(6) After hearing the evidence, the merit board shall make a finding by majority voice and reduce its findings and 
decision to writing. A copy of the findings and decision shall be forwarded to the subject firefighter in question 
and to the chief and shall become a permanent part of the firefighter's personnel record.  
 
 (h) For the purpose of all hearings before the chief, the disciplinary board of battalion chiefs, and the merit board, 
each respectively shall have subpoena power as may be enforceable by application to the Marion Ccircuit or Ssuperior 
Ccourt. 
  
 (i) Either party may, following a decision of the merit board, file a verified petition in the Marion Circuit or 
Superior Court as may be allowed. superior or circuit court of the county for a review of the decision. The petition for 
review shall be filed within thirty (30) days of the written decision of the merit board. Within thirty (30) calendar days 
after the filing of the petition for review, the petitioner shall file a true and complete copy of the transcript of the hearing 
and the board's written findings with the court. Upon request, the board shall prepare the transcript for the petitioner. The 
board shall charge the petitioner the reasonable cost of preparing the transcript for transmittal to the court. An extension 
of time in which to file the transcript may shall be granted by the court for good cause shown. Inability to obtain the 
transcript from the board within the time permitted by this section is good cause. Failure to file the transcript within the 
time permitted by this subsection, including any extension period ordered by the court, is cause for dismissal of the 
petition for review by the court, on its own motion, or on petition by the department City of Indianapolis. The court, 
without jury, shall review the record and render its decision as in other administrative reviews. The clerk of the court 
shall send a copy of the court's decision to the department of public safety and the appealing firefighter. Either party may 
appeal the decision of the court.  
 
Sec. 252-301. Holidays; additional pay. 
 
 (a) Suppression division. Because of the increased pressures of the work of the department and the around-the-
clock requirements for members of the suppression division, the council hereby grants to such members additional pay 
according to in accordance with the collective bargaining agreement between the city and the Indianapolis Metropolitan 
Professional Fire Fighters, Local 416 for working on any of the following holidays: stated in the collective bargaining 
agreement as may exist and change from time to time.  
(1) New Year's Day;  
 
(2) Martin Luther King Day (third Monday of January);  
 
(3) Presidents Day (third Monday of February);  
 
(4) Easter Sunday;

=== 2021-09-13 minutes, page 58 of 102 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 62 
(5) Memorial Day;  
 
(6) Independence Day;  
 
(7) Labor Day;  
 
(8) Columbus Day;  
 
(9) Veterans Day;  
 
(10) Thanksgiving Day; and  
 
(11) Christmas Day.  
 
 (b) Non-suppression division. Members of the non-suppression division of the department shall be entitled to the 
following days as holidays: established by Sec. 291-206 of the Code.  
 
(1) New Year's Day;  
 
(2) Martin Luther King Day (third Monday of January);  
 
(3) Presidents Day (third Monday of February);  
 
(4) Good Friday;  
 
(5) Primary Election Day in years with state or municipal elections;  
 
(6) Memorial Day;  
 
(7) Independence Day;  
 
(8) Labor Day;  
 
(9) General Election Day in years with state or municipal elections;  
 
(10) Thanksgiving Day;  
 
(11) Friday after Thanksgiving; and  
 
(12) Christmas Day.  
 
Members of the non-suppression division shall receive their regular rate of pay for holidays on which they are not required 
to work. Members who are required to work for eight (8) hours or more on a holiday shall receive additional pay for that 
holiday at the rates set forth for members of the suppression division in the collective bargaining agreement between the 
city and the Indianapolis Metropolitan Professional Fire Fighters, Local 416 Members who are required to work less than 
eight (8) hours on a holiday shall receive a portion of the additional holiday pay commensurate with the portion of the 
day worked, but not less than one-half (½) of the holiday pay.  
 
Sec. 252-302. Annual leave. 
 
 (a) Annual leave for firefighters shall be as stated in the collective bargaining agreement as may exist and change 
from time to time.  
 
 (a) Suppression division. 
 
(1) Each active member of the Indianapolis fire department assigned to the suppression division shall receive not 
less than one hundred and forty-four (144) hours annual leave with full salary each and every fiscal year. 
Provided, that any such member who shall have served five (5) continuous years but less than seven (7) 
continuous years on such department shall receive not less than one hundred and sixty-eight (168) hours annual 
leave with full salary each and every fiscal year. Provided further that any such member who shall have served 
seven (7) continuous years but less than fifteen (15) continuous years on such department shall receive not less 
than one hundred and ninety-two (192) hours annual leave with full salary each and every fiscal year. Provided

=== 2021-09-13 minutes, page 59 of 102 ===
September 13, 2021 
 
 63  
further that any such member who shall have served fifteen (15) continuous years but less than twenty (20) 
continuous years on such department shall receive not less than two hundred and sixteen (216) hours annual 
leave each and every fiscal year. Provided further that any such member who shall serve for twenty (20) or 
more continuous years shall receive not less than two hundred and forty (240) hours annual leave each and 
every fiscal year.  
 
(2) Annual leave shall be taken within the calendar year in which it is accumulated; however, at the discretion of 
the chief, up to a maximum of three hundred and twelve (312) hours of earned annual leave may be carried 
over from one (1) calendar year to the next calendar year, provided the chief retains the right to schedule such 
carryover annual leave at his or her discretion in order to maintain the efficiency of the operation of the 
department. Members who are unable to take sufficient annual leave to keep their maximum carry-over amount 
below three hundred and twelve (312) hours; due to extenuating circumstances (including, but not limited to, 
extended military leave, family medical leave, on-duty injury leave, or other administrative or legal constraints) 
may be allowed, with the approval of the chief or director, to carry over the additional adjusted accrued hours 
until such hours can be efficiently scheduled upon the member's return to regularly assigned duties.(3) Upon 
separation of employment by reason of death, or retirement under circumstances such that the employee would 
be eligible for retirement under state law, or in the event of layoff, if such layoff was anticipated to last longer 
than six (6) months, an employee will be entitled to compensation for accumulated vacation leave at his or her 
daily rate of compensation.  
 
 (b) Non-suppression division. 
 
(1) Effective October 1, 1996, each active member of the Indianapolis fire department assigned to the non-
suppression division and hired on or before December 31, 1984, shall receive hereafter not less than one 
hundred and twenty (120) hours annual leave with full salary each and every fiscal year. Provided, that hereafter 
any member hired on or before December 31, 1984, who shall have served from ten (10) years to twenty (20) 
years on such department shall receive not less than one hundred and sixty (160) hours annual leave with full 
salary each and every fiscal year. Provided further that any such member hired on or before December 31, 
1984, who shall serve for more than twenty (20) years shall be entitled to forty (40) additional hours to be 
added to his or her regular annual leave. Annual leave shall be taken within the calendar year in which it is 
accumulated; however, at the discretion of the chief, up to a maximum of two hundred and forty (240) hours 
of earned annual leave may be carried over from one (1) calendar year to the next calendar year, provided the 
chief retains the right to schedule such carryover annual leave at his or her discretion in order to maintain the 
efficiency of the operation of the department.  
 
(2) Each active member of the department assigned to the non-suppression division and hired after December 31, 
1984, shall receive hereafter not less than eighty (80) hours annual leave with full salary each and every fiscal 
year. Provided, that hereafter any such member hired after December 31, 1984, who shall have served seven 
(7) continuous years but less than fifteen (15) continuous years on such department shall receive not less than 
one hundred and twenty (120) hours annual leave with full salary each and every fiscal year. Provided further 
that any such member hired after December 31, 1984, who shall have served fifteen (15) or more continuous 
years on such department shall receive not less than one hundred sixty (160) hours annual leave and that any 
such member who shall have served twenty (20) or more continuous years on such department shall receive 
not less than two hundred (200) hours annual leave with full salary every fiscal year. Annual leave shall be 
taken within the calendar year in which it is accumulated; however, at the discretion of the chief, up to a 
maximum of three hundred and twelve (312) hours of earned annual leave may be carried over from one (1) 
calendar year to the next calendar year, provided the chief retains the right to schedule such carryover annual 
leave at his or her discretion in order to maintain the efficiency of the operation of the department. Members 
who are unable to take sufficient annual leave to keep their maximum carry-over amount below three hundred 
and twelve (312) hours; due to extenuating circumstances (including, but not limited to, extended military 
leave, family medical leave, on-duty injury leave, or other administrative or legal constraints) may be allowed, 
with the approval of the chief or director, to carry over the additional adjusted accrued hours until such hours 
can be efficiently scheduled upon the member's return to regularly assigned duties.  
 
(3) Upon separation of employment by reason of death, or retirement under circumstances such that the employee 
would be eligible for retirement under state law, or in the event of layoff, if such layoff was anticipated to last 
longer than six (6) months, an employee will be entitled to compensation for accumulated vacation leave at his 
or her daily rate of compensation.  
 
 (c)(b) Upon separation of employment by reason of death, or retirement under circumstances such that the 
member would be eligible for retirement under state law, or in the event of layoff, if such layoff was anticipated to last 
longer than six (6) months, a member will be entitled to compensation for accumulated annual leave at their daily rate of

=== 2021-09-13 minutes, page 60 of 102 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 64 
compensation. 
 
 (d)(c) How leave shall be taken. Annual leave shall be taken in increments of not less than one (1) duty day, unless 
approved by the chief or chief’s his or her designee. For purposes of this section, duty day means twenty-four (24) hours 
for members of the department assigned to the suppression division, and eight (8) hours for all other members of the 
department.  
 
 (d) Conversion of annual leave. When a firefighter is transferred from one (1) division to another, the number of 
hours of annual leave that he/she has accrued shall be converted so the firefighter he/she retains, as nearly as possible, 
the same calendar period of time off.  
 
Sec. 252-303. Sick leave. 
 
 (a) Any active member of the Indianapolis fire department hired on or before December 31, 1984, or after January 
1, 1993, or any member who is hired between these two (2) dates and who makes an election pursuant to section 252-
303(d) who is unable to perform the member’s duties of his or her employment by reason of sickness, accident or injury 
is entitled to not less than ninety (90) calendar days' sick leave with full pay in a calendar year, or for the period of such 
incapacity, should said period be less than ninety (90) days. In the case of an officer incurring a sickness, accident or 
injury in the direct line of duty, the chief, with the approval of the merit board, may, upon written application of the 
officer, extend paid sick leave. Before any extension may be rendered, a medical doctor or psychologist retained by the 
department must certify the member unfit for active duty. If the member is unable to return to work, he or she shall apply 
for a disability pension pursuant to state law. The merit board shall establish guidelines, policies and procedures for the 
administration of paid sick leave and extensions thereof.  
  
 (b) Any active member of the department hired between December 31, 1984, and January 1, 1993, and who does 
not make an election to opt out pursuant to section 252-303(d), shall receive sick leave as follows:  
 
(1) On-duty injury. Any such member who is unable to perform the member’s duties of his/her employment by 
reason of sickness, accident or injury incurred in the direct line of duty as certified by a medical doctor or 
psychologist retained by the department shall be entitled to such leave with full pay for the period of such 
incapacity; however such sick leave period shall not exceed ninety (90) calendar days in a calendar year. The 
chief, with the approval of the merit board, may, upon written application of the officer, extend paid sick leave. 
Before any extension may be rendered, a medical doctor or psychologist retained by the department must certify 
the member unfit for active duty. If the member is unable to return to work, he or she shall apply for a disability 
pension pursuant to state law. The merit board shall establish guidelines, policies and procedures for the 
administration of paid sick leave and extensions thereof.  
 
(2) Non-duty injury. 
 a. Definitions.  
 
1. "Sick leave" means time off granted a firefighter whose illness, accident, injury or disability prevents him 
or her from performing duties directed by the department. Sick leave is intended to provide relief from 
loss of pay in cases of absence from work due to established incapacity to perform assigned duties, as 
defined and directed by the department, but is not to be regarded as an optional leave right.  
 
2. "Reasonable evidence" means a certificate from a medical doctor licensed to practice medicine or a 
licensed psychologist and retained by the department that the subject firefighter is incapable of performing 
assigned duties as defined and directed by the department. Before granting or continuing sick leave with 
pay, the department may require evidence that the member employee is actually sick or disabled.  
 
 b. Accrual.  
 
1. Upon commencement of employment, firefighters shall have a bank of ninety-six (96) hours of sick leave 
for nonduty illnesses, accidents or injuries. Upon completion of one (1) year of employment, firefighters 
shall accrue sick leave at the rate of eight (8) hours per month, ninety-six (96) hours per year.  
 
2. Those firefighters who are starting to work on or before the fifteenth day of the month shall have their 
account credited with a full month's accrual of sick time on the first day of the month following the month 
in which they were hired.

=== 2021-09-13 minutes, page 61 of 102 ===
September 13, 2021 
 
 65  
3. Those firefighters who are starting to work on or after the sixteenth day of the month shall have their 
account credited with a full month's accrual of sick time on the first day of the second month after they 
were hired.  
 
4. Sick leave time will only accrue if a firefighter works or is paid for more than one-half (½) the month; no 
firefighter shall continue to accrue sick leave or other fringe benefits while receiving pension disability 
payments.  
 
 c. Separation from employment. Accrued sick leave will not be paid upon termination, except as follows: Upon 
separation from employment by reason of death, or retirement under circumstances such that the firefighter 
employee would be eligible for retirement benefits under state law, or in the event of a layoff, if such layoff 
was anticipated to last longer than six (6) months, an firefighter employee will be entitled to compensation or 
accrued accumulated sick leave at one-half (½) the firefighter’s his or her regular daily rate of compensation.  
 
 d. Carryover. Accrued sick leave may be carried over from year to year.  
 
 (c) Compliance with departmental policy. All use of sick leave due to sickness, accidents and injuries must comply 
with departmental rules, regulations, orders and standard operating procedures.  
 
(1) Unearned leave. Sick leave cannot be used prior to accrual and cannot be earned while on any leave without 
pay status.  
 
(2) Justification. The burden of proof rests with the firefighter to demonstrate to the department that sick leave is 
justifiable. The department may require a medical certificate or other evidence of illness as requested. Sick 
leave is only to be used for personal illness or injury.  
 
(3) Sick leave abuse. In the case of sick leave abuse, the department may designate such leave as vacation leave, 
leave without pay, or as grounds for disciplinary actions, including dismissal.  
 
(4) Charging sick leave. Sick leave may only be taken in eight-hour increments; provided, that those firefighters 
who work on a twenty-four-hour on/forty-eight-hour off shift may only take sick leave in twenty-four-hour 
increments.  
(5) Accrual of other paid leave. Vacation days shall accrue to firefighters while on paid sick leave.  
 
Sec. 252-304. Perfect attendance leave. 
 
 (a) Effective January 1, 1994, those active members of the Indianapolis fire department assigned to the non-
suppression division shall receive one (1) eight-hour perfect attendance leave day for each calendar quarter in which no 
sick leave is used in addition to any vacation provided thereto.  
 
 (b) Perfect attendance leave days are noncumulative and shall be awarded at the pleasure of the chief, so long as 
the granting of such leave does not necessitate the use of supplementary manpower nor incur additional costs to the 
department. During declared emergencies, all leave days, including compensatory perfect attendance days, may be 
canceled for the duration of such emergencies.  
 
Sec. 252-305. Military leave. 
 
 Military leave shall be granted in accordance with applicable state and federal law. Notwithstanding the provisions 
of section 291-210, firefighters assigned to the non-suppression division shall be granted a maximum of fifteen (15) 
eight-hour working days of paid military leave in a calendar year and firefighters assigned to the suppression division 
shall be granted a maximum of one hundred forty-four (144) work hours of paid military leave in a calendar year.  
 
Sec. 252-306. Reserved. 
 
 Editor's note(s)—G.O. 139, 1996, § 4, adopted Sept. 30, 1996, repealed § 23-76 of the 1975 Code, relative to 
F.L.S.A. Day and bonus day, from which § 252-306Editor's note(s)— derived.  
 
Sec. 252-307. Death Bereavement leave. 
 
 (a) Firefighters in non-suppression division. Upon the death of a parent, child or spouse, an active firefighter 
assigned to the non-suppression division will receive a maximum of five (5) eight (8)-hour duty days leave with pay. 
Upon the death of a brother, sister, stepmother, stepfather, stepson, stepdaughter, stepbrother, stepsister, father-in-law,

=== 2021-09-13 minutes, page 62 of 102 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 66 
mother-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, grandmother, grandfather, grandson and granddaughter, or other relative 
who was residing with the firefighter, a firefighter will receive a maximum of three (3) working days leave with pay. The 
chief has discretion to grant three (3) eight (8)-hour duty days for leave to be charged against any earned leave time for 
a death of someone other than those listed above.  
 
 (b) Firefighters in suppression division. 
 
(1) Upon the death of a parent, child or spouse, an active firefighter assigned to the suppression division will 
receive a maximum of two (2) twenty-four-hour duty days off with pay.  
 
(2) Upon the death of a brother, sister, stepmother, stepfather, stepson, stepdaughter, stepbrother, stepsister, father-
in-law, mother-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, grandfather, grandmother, grandson or granddaughter, or 
other relative who was residing with the firefighter, a firefighter assigned to the suppression division shall 
receive a maximum of one (1) twenty-four-hour duty day off with pay. The chief has the discretion to grant 
one (1) day for leave to be charged against any earned leave time for a death of someone other than those listed 
above.  
 
(c) General. Documentation of the death, such as a death certificate or article, may be required from the firefighter. 
Additional time off to be charged to earned leave time if available, or without pay, may be granted at the discretion of 
the chief.  
 
Sec. 252-308. Pension benefit payable to the surviving children of deceased members of the 1937 firefighters' 
pension fund. 
 
 Effective January 1, 1985, and as authorized by IC 36-8-7-12.1(b)(2)(B), surviving children of deceased members 
of the 1937 firefighters' pension fund shall receive a benefit equal to twenty (20) percent of the salary of a fully paid first 
class firefighter in the Consolidated City of Indianapolis at the time of the payment of the benefit.  
 
Sec. 252-309. Hours of work. 
 
Effective October 5, 1996, firefighters assigned to the suppression division shall be scheduled by the Indianapolis fire 
department to work an average of one hundred forty-four (144) hours in a twenty-one-day work period. Firefighters 
assigned to non-suppression shall be scheduled by the department to work an average of one hundred twenty (120) hours 
in a twenty-one-day work period.  
 
SECTION 2.  The expressed or implied repeal or amendment by this ordinance of any other ordinance or part of any other 
ordinance does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date 
of this ordinance.  Those rights, liabilities, and proceedings are continued, and penalties shall be imposed and enforced under 
the repealed or amended ordinance as if this ordinance had not been adopted. 
 
SECTION 3.  Should any provision (section, paragraph, sentence, clause, or any other portion) of this ordinance be declared 
by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, the remaining provision or provisions shall not be affected, 
if and only if such remaining provisions can, without the invalid provision or provisions, be given the effect intended by the 
Council in adopting this ordinance.  To this end the provisions of this ordinance are severable. 
 
SECTION 4.  This ordinance shall be in effect from and after its passage by the Council and compliance with Ind. Code § 36-
3-4-14. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 258, 2021.  Councillor Adamson reported that the Public Works Committee  
heard Proposal No. 258, 2021 on August 12, 2021.  The proposal, sponsored by Councillor s 
Adamson and Jones, authorizes the City of Indianapolis, acting through the Marion County 
Stormwater Management District, to finance the planning, design, construction, and inspection of 
channels, culverts, levees and dams, stewardship, studies, and water qua lity projects, and to issue 
up to $50 Million of revenue bonds, in one or more series, and if necessary, interim financing notes, 
and approves and authorizes other actions in respect thereto .  By a 10-0-1 vote, the Committee 
reported the proposal to the Council with the recommendation that it do pass.   
 
Councillor Boots asked to abstain to avoid the appearance of a conflict of interest.  Consent was 
given.

=== 2021-09-13 minutes, page 63 of 102 ===
September 13, 2021 
 
 67  
 
Councillor Adamson moved, seconded by Council lor Carlino, for adoption.  Proposal No. 258, 
2021 was adopted on the following roll call vote; viz: 
 
23 YEAS: Adamson, Bain, Barth, Brown, Carlino, Dilk, Evans-E, Evans-J, Graves, Gray, Hart, 
Jackson, Jones, Larrison , Lewis, Mascari, McCormick, Mowery, Ol iver, Osili, Potts, Ray, 
Robinson 
0 NAYS:  
1 NOT VOTING: Boots 
1 ABSENT: Annee 
 
Proposal No. 258, 2021 was retitled GENERAL RESOLUTION NO. 11, 2021, and reads as 
follows: 
 
CITY-COUNTY GENERAL RESOLUTION NO. 11, 2021 
 
A PROPOSAL FOR A GENERAL RESOLUTION approving the issuance of one or more series of City of Indianapolis, 
Indiana Stormwater Revenue Bonds and, if necessary, one or more series of bond anticipation notes or other notes in an 
aggregate principal amount not to exceed Fifty Million Dollars ($50,000,000) and approving and authorizing other 
actions in respect thereto. 
 
WHEREAS, the Board of Public Works (“Board”) of the City of Indianapolis, Indiana (“City”) being the governing 
body of the Marion County Stormwater Management District (“Stormwater District”), has determined that it is necessary 
to issue revenue bonds (“Bonds”) of the Stormwater District in one or more series, bond anticipation notes (“BANs”) of 
the Stormwater District in one or more series, or other short-term notes (“Notes”) of the Stormwater District to be issued 
in one or more series, in the aggregate principal amount not to exceed Fifty Million Dollars ($50,000,000) for the purposes 
of procuring funds to apply to the costs of the projects specified in the Stormwater Capital Improvement Plan described 
below; and 
 
WHEREAS, IC 8 -1.5-5-23(a) and, to the extent applicable, IC 36-3 -5-8, requires the City -County Council of 
Indianapolis and Marion County, Indiana (the “City-County Council”) to approve t he issuance of bonds or notes by the 
Stormwater District and any special taxing district of the City, respectively; and 
 
WHEREAS, the Indianapolis Department of Public Works (the "DPW") 4-year (2022 -2025) Stormwater Capital 
Improvement Plan set forth in Ex hibit A  attached hereto and incorporated herein (the "2022-2025 Stormwater 
Improvement Plan") will invest approximately Three Hundred Millions Dollars ($300,000,000) from various sources of 
revenue in the planning, design, construction, and inspection of channels, culverts, levees and dams, stewardship, studies, 
and water quality projects; 
 
WHEREAS, the 2022- 2025 Stormwater  Improvement Plan has been programmed by the DPW Engineering 
Division with specific projects from DPW, which projects were identified by need; and 
 
WHEREAS, the 2022-2025 Stormwater Improvement Plan will be updated to the City-Cou nty Council each May 
with the subsequent year added and the 2022- 2025 Stormwater Improvement Plan is dependent upon the dedicated 
revenues that are incorporated and appropriated each year by the City-County Council and the Mayor, now, therefore, 
 
WHEREAS, IC 5-1.4 provides that a “qualified entity”, which term includes the Stormwater District, may issue and 
sell its bonds or notes to the Indianapolis Local Public Improvement Bond Bank (“Bond Bank”); and 
 
WHEREAS, the Executive Director of the Bond Bank has expressed a willingness to  purchase the Bonds, BANs 
and/or Notes in a negotiated sale subject to approval by the Board of Directors of the Bond Bank; and 
 
WHEREAS, the City -County Council has determined that the issuance of the Bonds, BANs, and Notes by the 
Stormwater District should be approved; now therefore: 
 
BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE  
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA: 
 
SECTION 1.  The City-County Council does hereby approve the issuance of the Bonds of the Stormwater District, to be 
issued in one or more series, BANs to be issued in one or more series, and Notes to be issued in one or more series, in an

=== 2021-09-13 minutes, page 64 of 102 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 68 
aggregate principal amount not to exceed Fifty Million Dollars ($50,000,000) to apply on the costs of the projec ts 
contained in the 2022-2025 Stormwater Capital Improvement Plan (the “Projects”), and hereby approves the sale of the 
Bonds and the BANs to the Bond Bank and the Notes to the Bond Bank or other purchaser.  
 
SECTION 2.  The 2022-2025 Stormwater Improvement Plan as set forth by DPW  and attached as Exhibit A, which 
includes the Projects to be funded by the issuance of the Bonds or Notes, is hereby endorsed by the City-County Council. 
 
SECTION 3.  This resolution shall be in full force and effect upon adoption and compliance with IC 36-3-4-14. 
 
Councillor Adamson reported that the Public Works Committee heard Proposal Nos. 259-262, 2021 
on August 12, 2021.  He asked for consent to vote on these proposals together.  Consent was given.   
 
PROPOSAL NO. 259, 2021.  The proposal, sponsored by Councillor Annee , authorizes a speed 
limit reduction to 25 miles per hour in Forest Commons subdivision, as well as all streets within 
the adjacent Kuester Survey, Mitchell's Homes Survey, Forest Creek Commons, Willow Pond, 
Victory Terrace, Catali na Estates and Swat hmoor Hills subdivisions (District 23) .  PROPOSAL 
NO. 260, 2021.  The proposal, sponsored by Councillor Hart, authorizes a speed limit reduction to 
25 miles per hour in the Adler Grove subdivision (District 18).  PROPOSAL NO. 261, 2021.  The 
proposal, sponsored by Councillors Jones and Dilk, authorizes a speed limit reduction to 25 miles 
per hour in the William L. Elder's University Heights, Elder's Marion Heights, Martin Burton's and 
Reliable Realty Company's The Freeland subdivisions (Districts 16, 24).   PROPOSAL NO. 262, 
2021.  The proposal, sponsored by Councillor J. Evans, authorizes a speed limit reduction to 25 
miles per hour in the Cloverleaf Farms, Lyndale and Biltmore Gardens platted subdivisions  
(District 22).  By 10-0 votes, the committee recommended the proposals to the full Council with a 
recommendation that they do pass.  Councillor Adamson moved, seconded by Councillor Jones , 
for adoption.  Proposal Nos. 259-262, 2021 were adopted on the following roll call vote; viz: 
 
24 YEAS: Adamson, Bain, Barth, Boots, Brown, Carlino, Dilk, Evans-E, Evans-J, Graves, Gray, 
Hart, Jackson, Jones, Larrison, Lewis, Mascari, McCormick, Mowery, Oliver, Osili, Potts, Ray, 
Robinson 
0 NAYS:  
1 ABSENT: Annee 
 
Proposal No. 259, 2021 was retitled GENERAL ORDINANCE NO. 34, 2021, and reads as follows: 
 
CITY-COUNTY GENERAL ORDINANCE NO. 34, 2021 
 
PROPOSAL FOR A GENERAL ORDINANCE to amend the Revised Code to make various changes to Chapter 441, Traffic. 
 
 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE 
 CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA: 
 
SECTION 1.  That the Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County, Indianapolis/Marion County, Indiana, 
specifically Sec. 441-323, Alteration of prima facie speed limits, be, and the same is hereby amended by the addition of 
the following, to wit: 
 
All local streets within Forrest Commons platted subdivision, 25 mph. 
All local streets within Kuester Survey platted subdivision, 25 mph. 
All local streets within Mitchell’s Homes Survey platted subdivision, 25 mph. 
All local streets within Forest Creek Commons platted subdivision, 25 mph. 
All local streets within Willow Pond platted subdivision, 25 mph. 
All local streets within Victory Terrace platted subdivision, 25 mph. 
All local streets within Catalina Estates platted subdivision, 25 mph. 
All local streets within Swathmoor Hills platted subdivision, 25 mph. 
 
SECTION 2.  The expressed or implied repeal or amendment by this ordinance of any other ordinance or part of any other 
ordinance does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date

=== 2021-09-13 minutes, page 65 of 102 ===
September 13, 2021 
 
 69  
of this ordinance.  Those rights, liabilities, and proceedings are continued, and penalties shall be imposed and enforced under 
the repealed or amended ordinance as if this ordinance had not been adopted. 
 
SECTION 3.  Should any provision (section, paragraph, sentence, clause, or any other portion) of this ordinance be declared 
by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, the remaining provision or provisions shall not be affected, 
if and only if such remaining provisions can, without the invalid provision or provisions, be given the effect intended by the 
Council in adopting this ordinance.  To this end the provisions of this ordinance are severable. 
 
SECTION 4.  This ordinance shall be in effect from and after its passage by the Council and compliance with Ind. Code § 36-
3-4-14. 
 
Proposal No. 260, 2021 was retitled GENERAL ORDINANCE NO. 35, 2021, and reads as follows: 
 
CITY-COUNTY GENERAL ORDINANCE NO. 35, 2021 
 
PROPOSAL FOR A GENERAL ORDINANCE to amend the Revised Code to make various changes to Chapter 441, Traffic. 
 
 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE 
 CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA: 
 
SECTION 1.  That the Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County, Indianapolis/Marion County, Indiana, 
specifically Sec. 441-323, Alteration of prima facie speed limits, be, and the same is hereby amended by the addition of 
the following, to wit: 
 
All local streets within Adler Grove platted subdivision, 25 mph. 
 
SECTION 2.  The expressed or implied repeal or amendment by this ordinance of any other ordinance or part of any other 
ordinance does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date 
of this ordinance.  Those rights, liabilities, and proceedings are continued, and penalties shall be imposed and enforced under 
the repealed or amended ordinance as if this ordinance had not been adopted. 
 
SECTION 3.  Should any provision (section, paragraph, sentence, clause, or any other portion) of this ordinance be declared 
by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, the remaining provision or provisions shall not be affected, 
if and only if such remaining provisions can, without the invalid provision or provisions, be given the effect intended by the 
Council in adopting this ordinance.  To this end the provisions of this ordinance are severable. 
 
SECTION 4.  This ordinance shall be in effect from and after its passage by the Council and compliance with Ind. Code § 36-
3-4-14. 
 
Proposal No. 261, 2021 was retitled GENERAL ORDINANCE NO. 36, 2021, and reads as follows: 
 
CITY-COUNTY GENERAL ORDINANCE NO. 36, 2021 
 
PROPOSAL FOR A GENERAL ORDINANCE to amend the Revised Code to make various changes to Chapter 441, Traffic. 
 
 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE 
 CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA: 
 
SECTION 1.  That the Revised Code of the Consolidated C ity and County, Indianapolis/Marion County, Indiana, 
specifically Sec. 441-323, Alteration of prima facie speed limits, be, and the same is hereby amended by the addition of 
the following, to wit: 
 
All local streets within William L. Elder’s University Heights platted subdivision, 25 mph. 
All local streets within Elder’s Marion Heights platted subdivision, 25 mph. 
All local streets within Martin Burton’s platted subdivision, 25 mph. 
All local streets within Reliable Realty Company’s The Freeland platted subdivision, 25 mph. 
 
SECTION 2.  The expressed or implied repeal or amendment by this ordinance of any other ordinance or part of any other 
ordinance does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date 
of this ordinance.  Those rights, liabilities, and proceedings are continued, and penalties shall be imposed and enforced under 
the repealed or amended ordinance as if this ordinance had not been adopted.

=== 2021-09-13 minutes, page 66 of 102 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 70 
 
SECTION 3.  Should any provision (section, paragraph, sentence, clause, or any other portion) of this ordinance be declared 
by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, the remaining provision or provisions shall not be affected, 
if and only if such remaining provisions can, without the invalid provision or provisions, be given the effect intended by the 
Council in adopting this ordinance.  To this end the provisions of this ordinance are severable. 
 
SECTION 4.  This ordinance shall be in effect from and after its passage by the Council and compliance with Ind. Code § 36-
3-4-14. 
 
Proposal No. 262, 2021 was retitled GENERAL ORDINANCE NO. 37, 2021, and reads as follows: 
 
CITY-COUNTY GENERAL ORDINANCE NO. 37, 2021 
 
PROPOSAL FOR A GENERAL ORDINANCE to amend the Revised Code to make various changes to Chapter 441, Traffic. 
 
 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE 
 CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA: 
 
SECTION 1.  That the Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County, Indianapolis/Marion County, Indiana, 
specifically Sec. 441-323, Alteration of prima facie speed limits, be, and the same is hereby amended by the addition of 
the following, to wit: 
 
All local streets within Cloverleaf Farms platted subdivision, 25 mph. 
All local streets within Lyndale platted subdivision, 25 mph. 
All local streets within Biltmore platted subdivision, 25 mph. 
 
SECTION 2.  The expressed or implied repeal or amendment by this ordinance of any other ordinance or part of any other 
ordinance does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date 
of this ordinance.  Those rights, liabilities, and proceedings are continued, and penalties shall be imposed and enforced under 
the repealed or amended ordinance as if this ordinance had not been adopted. 
 
SECTION 3.  Should any provision (section, paragraph, sentence, clause, or any other portion) of this ordinance be declared 
by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, the remaining provision or provisions shall not be affected, 
if and only if such remaining provisions can, without the invalid provision or provisions, be given the effect intended by the 
Council in adopting this ordinance.  To this end the provisions of this ordinance are severable. 
 
SECTION 4.  This ordinance shall be in effect from and after its passage by the Council and compliance with Ind. Code § 36-
3-4-14. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 287, 2021.  Co uncillor Mascari reported t hat the Administration and Finance 
Committee heard Proposal No. 287, 2021 on September 7, 2021.  The proposal, sponsored by 
Councillor Mascari, approves changes to compensation and personn el ordinances to provide that 
the Controller is to apply cost of living adjustment to employee salary classification schedules in 
annual budget ordinance and to consider corresponding compensation increases for employees not 
covered by a collective bargaining ordinance; clarify incentive pay program and add a bonus award 
program to recognize exemplary performance and service; reinstitute benefit leave for all part-time 
employees; waive the requirement for 2-weeks notice upon separation for a payout of benefit leave 
for certain employees; eliminate the payout of benefit leave when employee is terminated for gross 
misconduct; clarify the language of the holiday ordinance as it pertains to those employees on a 
non-standard schedule; and add a new section providing paid parental leave.  By an 11-0 vote, the 
committee recommended the proposal to the full Council with the recommendation that it do pass.  
Councillor Mascari moved, seconded by Councillor Adamson, for adoption.  Proposal No. 287, 
2021 was adopted on the following roll call vote; viz:

=== 2021-09-13 minutes, page 67 of 102 ===
September 13, 2021 
 
 71  
23 YEAS: Adamson, Bain, Barth, Boots, Brown, Carlino, Dilk, Evans-E, Evans-J, Graves, Gray, 
Hart, Jackson, Jones, Larrison, Lewis, Mascari, Mowery, Oliver, Osili, Potts, Ray, Robinson 
0 NAYS:  
1 NOT VOTING: McCormick 
1 ABSENT: Annee 
 
Proposal No. 287, 2021 was retitled GENERAL ORDINANCE NO. 38, 2021, and reads as follows: 
 
CITY-COUNTY GENERAL ORDINANCE NO. 38, 2021 
 
PROPOSAL FOR A GENERAL ORDINANCE to make certain changes to the compensation and personnel ordinances 
governing some City-County employees; 
 
WHEREAS, the city controller desires to provide for annual consideration of changes to the employee salary 
classification schedule and employee compensation in accordance with a formula for a cost of living adjustment (COLA); 
and 
 
WHEREAS, the city controller desires to modify the incentive pay program for covered employees and add a 
new bonus award program; and 
 
WHEREAS, the city controller desires to allow for flexibility in the payout of benefit leave when a two (2) week 
notice is not provided and to prohibit the payout of accrued benefit leave for covered City -County employees who 
are terminated for gross misconduct; and 
 
WHEREAS, the city controller desires to allow part-time employees to accrue pro-rated benefit leave; and  
 
WHEREAS, the city controller desires to make clarifying changes to the holiday ordinance provisions on leave 
where non-traditional work schedules or requirements are in place; and  
 
WHEREAS, the city controller desires to provide paid parental leave to enable employees to care for and bond with a 
newborn or a newly adopted or newly placed child; now, therefore 
 
BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE  
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA 
 
SECTION 1.  Section 192-302 of the “Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County” hereby is amended by the 
addition of the language that is underscored, to read as follows: 
 
Sec. 192-302. – Annual budget 
 
(a) For the calendar year 2003 budgets and thereafter, for each item appropriating funds for payment for 
"personal services", the item shall specify the total appropriation, including fringe benefits, the number of employees 
authorized expressed in terms of full time equivalents, and the "salary classification schedule” under which the 
compensation of each employee sha ll be determined.  
 
(b) In preparing the annual budget, the Controller may include compensation increases consistent with a positive 
cost of living adjustment (COLA) formula as set out in Sec. 192-304, for those employees not covered by a collective 
bargaining agreement.  
 
SECTION 2.  Section 192-304 of the “Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County” hereby is amended by the addition 
of the language that is underscored, to read as follows: 
 
Sec. 192-304. - Modification of salary classification schedule. 
 
(a) The salary classification schedule may be modified by adoption of a fiscal ordinance and such change may be 
included in an ordinance making additional appropriations.   
 
(b) The Controller shall apply a cost of living adjustment (COLA) to the salary classi fication schedules 
promulgated by the human resources division in the annual budget ordinance.  The COLA formula will be calculated by 
taking the percentage change in the Consumer Price Index for urban wage earners and clerical workers from the second 
quarter average of the previous year to the second quarter average for the current year with a maximum COLA of three

=== 2021-09-13 minutes, page 68 of 102 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 72 
percent (3%) per year. The Controller is authorized to waive or reduce this annual adjustment only if annual revenue 
projections reduce year -over-year, if applying the adjustment would result in a decrease in the salary classification 
schedules, or if other extenuating circumstances apply.  If an annual COLA is waived for any of these reasons, the next 
calendar year shall include the adjustment f rom both the waived year and the regularly calculated year, up to the 
maximum permitted COLA of three percent (3%) per year. If application of the COLA formula would result in a negative 
adjustment in a given year, the negative COLA that would have applied in that year may be wholly or partially deducted 
in the following year from the adjustment that would otherwise be dictated by that following year’s COLA formula. 
   
SECTION 3.  Section 291-108 of the "Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County" hereby is amended by deleting the 
language that is stricken-through and adding the language that is underlined, to read as follows: 
 
Sec. 291-108. - Incentive pay programs and bonus awards. 
 
(a) Incentive pay program 
 
Each department director and each county official responsible for hiring and fixing the salaries in each county office or agency 
may develop a program which would provide compensation adjustments consistent with incentives for productivity and such 
other measures of success in delivery of programs and services that include specific goals, including measures of success as 
may be determined by the department director or appropriate county official.  Exceptional or above-average performance of 
an employee’s regular duties is not considered to meet the qualifications of an incentive pay program. The incentive pay 
program will be evaluated over a twelve (12) month period of time (January through December).  Each incentive pay program 
developed must be reviewed and approved for consistency, objectivity and availability of funding by the human resources 
division of the office of finance and management and the office of corporation counsel.  Incentive pay program submission 
approval and payout requests must be received by the human resources division, the office of finance and management, and 
the office corporation counsel no later than February 1 of the program year.  Upon approval by the aforementioned offices, 
evaluation of the payout will begin no earlier than January of the year following completion of the program. Payouts shall not 
exceed $2,000 per employee, occur no sooner than February and no later than April of the year following the completion of 
the program, and be disbursed in the same manner as the employee’s regular paycheck.  
 
(b) Bonus awards 
 
Each department director and each county official responsible for hiring and fixing the salaries in each county office or agency 
may provide a bonus award to a n employee who has demonstrated exceptional meritorious performance and service that 
produced a measurable outcome, during the course of their regular duties, worthy of recognition and/or celebration.   Examples 
include: completing a significant project ahead of schedule with results which exceeded expectations, creating a solution to a 
problem and/or providing exceptional customer service, or continuing to deliver exceptional service when there was unusually 
high volume. Bonus awards may be provided to active employees with at least six (6) months of employment, in amounts 
between $100 to $2,500.  The department’s bonus award program and criteria must be documented and records maintained 
by the department or agency and approved for budget availability by the office of finance and management.  An individual 
employee may not receive more than $2,500 per calendar year and will receive the bonus amount in the same manner as 
the employee’s regular paycheck.  The human resources division is authorized to develop guidance for administration of 
bonus awards. 
 
SECTION 4.  Section 291-203 of the “Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County” hereby is amended by deleting the 
language that is stricken-through and adding the language that is underlined, to read as follows: 
 
Sec. 291-203. – Benefit leave  
 
(a)  Accrual schedule for city employees and applicable county offices whose employees normally are scheduled to 
work a forty-hour week.  
(1)  Employees with less than five (5) continuous years of employment shall accrue benefit leave monthly at the 
rate of fourteen and sixty-six hundredths (14.66) hours per month.  
(2)  Employees who have completed five (5) continuous years of employment bu t less than ten (10) continuous 
years of employment shall accrue benefit leave monthly at the rate of eighteen (18) hours per month.  
(3)  Employees who have completed ten (10) years of continuous employment but less than fifteen (15) years of 
continuous e mployment shall accrue benefit leave monthly at the rate of twenty -one and thirty-three 
hundredths (21.33) hours per month.  
(4)  Employees who have completed at least fifteen (15) years of continuous employment shall accrue benefit 
leave at the rate of twenty-four and sixty-six hundredths (24.66) hours per month.  
(5)  Benefit leave can only accrue if the employee works, or is on a paid leave of absence, or is receiving worker's 
compensation (or any combination of the three (3)) for more than half of the month.

=== 2021-09-13 minutes, page 69 of 102 ===
September 13, 2021 
 
 73  
(b)  Accrual schedule for applicable county offices whose employees are normally scheduled to work a thirty -seven-
and-one-half-hour week.  
(1)  Employees with less than five (5) continuous years of employment shall accrue benefit leave monthly at the 
rate of thirteen and seventy-five hundredths (13.75) hours per month.  
(2)  Employees who have completed five (5) continuous years of employment but less than ten (10) continuous 
years of employment shall accrue benefit leave monthly at the rate of sixteen and eight hundred seventy-five 
thousandths (16.875) hours per month.  
(3)  Employees who have completed ten (10) continuous years of employment but less than fifteen (15) 
continuous years of employment shall accrue benefit leave monthly at the rate of twenty (20) hours per 
month.  
(4)  Employees who have completed at least fifteen (15) continuous years of employment shall accrue benefit 
leave monthly at the rate of twenty-three and one hundred twenty-five-thousandths (23.125) hours per month.  
(5)  Benefit leave can only accrue if the employee works, is on a paid leave of absence, or on worker's 
compensation for more than half of the month.  
 
(c)  Charging benefit leave. Benefit leave shall be charged at the rate the employee is scheduled to work.  
 
(d)  Eligibility for accrual.  
(1)  Those employees who are starting to work on or before the fifteenth day of the month shall have their accounts 
credited with the appropriate benefit leave time on the first day of the month following the month in which 
they were hired.  
(2)  Those employees who are starting to work after the fifteenth day of the month shall have their accounts 
credited with the appropriate benefit leave time on the first day of the second month following the month in 
which they were hired.  
(3)  Employees who have been terminated or who have resigned from city or county employment will receive 
credit for benefit leave for the month they left employment only if they worked past the fifteenth day of the 
month.  
 
(e)  Use of benefit leave. The final right to approve use of benefit leave shall rest with the office, department, division, 
bureau or commission involved in order to preserve efficiency and provide the necessary service. 
 
(f)  Part-time employees. Part-time employees, who are scheduled to work at least 1320 hours in a calendar year, shall 
be entitled to benefit leave; however, leave accrual and pay for these employees shall be prorated based upon the 
average hours scheduled worked during the previous six (6) months of employment.  
 
(g)  When benefit leave does not accrue. No benefit leave shall accrue while an employee is on any leave without pay 
status. No temporary/seasonal or part-time/temporary employee is eligible to accrue benefit leave or pay.  
 
(h)  Benefit leave carryover.  
(1)  For city and county employees paid on a biweekly basis: Benefit leave shall be taken within the calendar 
year in which it is accumulated or it shall be lost. However, up to a maximum of one hundred sixty hours 
(160) (one hundred fifty (150) where appropriate) of benefit leave may be carried over from one (1) calendar 
year to the next calendar year, provided the officials retain the right to schedule such carryover at their 
discretion in order to maintain the efficiency of the operation involved. In addition, an employee who is 
required by management to work during a period which the employee had been previously scheduled to take 
benefit leave and who is unable due to the demands of his/her position to reschedule the benefit leave for that 
calendar year may be allowed, with the approval of the mayor or the appropriate elected official or agency 
head, to carry over an additional eighty (80) hours (seventy-five (75) where appropriate) of benefit leave, 
subject to such restrictions as may be imposed by the m ayor or the appropriate elected official or agency 
head. Benefit leave in excess of the maximum carryover amount shall be added to an employee's short term 
disability leave bank, if that bank is not at maximum accrual.  
(2)  For city employees covered by the current master agreement between the city and the American Federation 
of State, County and Municipal Employees: Benefit leave shall be taken within the calendar year in which it 
is accumulated or it shall be lost. However, up to a maximum of the number of hours which the employee 
can accrue in a calendar year may be carried over from one (1) calendar year to the next calendar year, 
provided the officials retain the right to schedule such carryover at their discretion in order to maintain the 
efficiency of the operation involved. In addition, an employee who is required by management to work during 
a period which the employee had been previously scheduled to take benefit leave and who is unable due to 
the demands of his/her position to reschedule the benef it leave for that calendar year may be allowed, with 
the approval of the mayor, to carry over an additional eighty (80) hours of benefit leave, subject to such 
restrictions as may be imposed by the mayor. Benefit leave in excess of the maximum carryover amount shall 
be added to an employee's short term disability leave bank, if that bank is not at maximum accrual.

=== 2021-09-13 minutes, page 70 of 102 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 74 
 
(i)  Two weeks' notice. Two (2) weeks' notice must be given upon voluntary resignation in order to receive payment for 
accrued benefit leave.  The city department or county agency may waive this requirement for good cause 
determined in consultation with the human resources division.  The maximum payment for accrued benefit leave 
shall be ten (10) weeks in 2021, eight (8) weeks in year 2022, and si x (6) weeks in year 2023 and every year 
thereafter. 
 
(j)  Termination, separation prior to six (6) months of employment.  Employees who are terminated or separate 
employment prior to the completion of six (6) months of employment will not be paid for accumulated, unused 
benefit leave. 
  
(k) Termination for gross misconduct.  Employees who are terminated for gross misconduct will not be paid for 
accumulated, unused benefit leave.  Gross misconduct shall include: 
 (1)  the filing of criminal charges against an employee; 
 (2)   working or reporting to work in a state of intoxication caused by the employee’s use of alcohol or a controlled 
substance; 
 (3)  battery on another individual while on City-County property or during working hours; 
 (4)   theft or embezzlement;  
 (5)  fraud.  
 
(kl) Employees transferred from noncity or noncounty entities.  Any person who becomes an employee as a result of a 
transfer of the duties of his/her former employer to the city or county may, upon the approval of the appropriate 
official, use his/her most recent hire date with the former employer for the purpose of determining benefit leave 
accrual.  
 
(lm) Advance use of benefit leave. Employees of Marion County offices and agencies (including Marion County courts) 
may not use or be paid for benefit leave hours before such hours are accrued. However, an elected official or agency 
who wishes to allow employees to use benefit leave up to one (1) week in advance may request permission to do 
so from the Marion County job classification and compensation board. The board may grant permission to the 
elected official to allow up to one (1) week use of benefit leave under such circumstances as the board deems 
advisable. Any benefit leave so advanced which remains outstanding upon an employee's termination shall be 
collected or withheld from the employee's final pay.  
 
SECTION 5.  Section 291-206 of the Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County” hereby is amended by deleting the 
language that is stricken-through and adding the language that is underlined, to read as follows: 
 
Sec. 291-206. - Holidays.  
 
(a)  Designated. The following are designated as city and county holidays for full-time and part-time employees:  
 
New Year's Day (January 1st); 
Martin Luther King Day (third Monday of January);  
President’s Day (third Monday of February); 
Memorial Day (last Monday of May);  
Juneteenth Observed (June 19th); 
Independence Day Observed (July 4th);  
Labor Day (first Monday of September);  
Indigenous People’s Day (second Monday of October); 
Veteran's Day (November 11th);  
Thanksgiving Eve, close at Noon (fourth Wednesday of November); 
Thanksgiving Day (fourth Thursday of November);  
Friday after Thanksgiving;  
Day before Christmas Eve, close at Noon (December 23rd); 
Christmas Eve (December 24th );  
Christmas Day (December 25th);  
New Year’s Eve, close at Noon (December 31st); 
Floating Holiday. This floating holiday shall be taken on a day of the employee’s choosing with the approval of 
the employee’s supervisor.  Such approval shall not be unreasonably withheld.  The floating holiday must be taken 
as a full work day.  It shall be taken once each year and will not carry over from year to year and will not be paid 
out upon the employee’s separation. 
Primary Election Day; and  
General Election Day in years with state and municipal elections;

=== 2021-09-13 minutes, page 71 of 102 ===
September 13, 2021 
 
 75  
 
provided; however, that nothing in this ordinance shall prevent the offices of the county clerk, county prosecutor and the 
courts from designating holidays recognized by the judicial branch.  
 
(c) Days celebrated as holidays in Monday -through-Friday operations .  
(1) In Monday -through-Friday operations, when any of these holidays occur on Sunday, the Monday 
succeeding shall be designated as the legal holiday. When any holiday occurs on Saturday, the Friday 
preceding shall be designated as the legal holiday.  
(2)  Holiday pay for unworked holiday.  Employees shall receive holiday pay at the employee's regular 
straight time rate for each of the designated holidays, if the employee is normally scheduled to work 
on the day that has been designated as a holiday.  
(3) a.  If a holiday is observed on a day of the week when an employee is not normally scheduled to work 
due to his/her participation in a voluntary flex time plan, the employee shall receive a maximum eight -
hour (seven and one -half-hour where applicable) compensator y day off, which shall be scheduled with 
the approval of his/her supervisor. An employee who separates employment shall not receive pay for 
any unused compensatory days.  
b.  If a holiday is observed on a day of the week when an employee is not normally scheduled to work 
due to a work schedule implemented by the city, the employee shall observe his/her next regularly 
scheduled day as a holiday and shall receive holiday pay for the number of hours he/she would have 
been regularly scheduled to work on that day.  
(4) Pay for working on a holiday.  Eligible employees shall be paid time and one -half in addition to holiday 
pay for any and all time authorized for work on the day designated as the holiday or compensatory time 
and one-half off as the case ma y be. 
(5)  Eligibility for holiday pay.  To be eligible, the employee must work the full scheduled workday before 
and the full scheduled workday following the holiday, unless the employee is on a paid leave of absence 
or is receiving worker's compensation. In Monday- through-Friday operations, there shall be no 
duplication or pyramiding of holiday pay for holidays falling on Saturday or Sunday but which are 
observed on other days.  
(6)  Failure to report for scheduled work.  Any employee scheduled for work on a  day designated as a 
holiday, who fails to report for work or absents himself or herself for that day, shall not be eligible for 
holiday pay or compensatory time off as the case may be. Regardless of whether the absence is 
approved or not, any employee scheduled to work on a holiday, who fails to work that holiday, must 
use paid leave time to be paid for that day.  
(7) Temporary employees.  Temporary/seasonal and part -time/temporary employees do not receive holiday 
pay. 
 
 (b)  Days celebrated as holidays in Monday-through-Friday operations.  
 
(1)  In Monday-through-Friday operations, when any of these holidays occur on Sunday, the Monday succeeding 
shall be designated as the legal holiday. When any holiday occurs on Saturday, the Friday preceding shall be 
designated as the legal holiday. Otherwise, employees shall observe the actual holiday. 
(2)  Holiday pay for unworked holiday. Employees shall receive holiday pay at the employee's regular straight 
time rate for each of the designated holidays, if the employee is normally scheduled to work on the day that has 
been designated as a holiday. 
(3) An employee who is required to work on the actual holiday shall be paid time and one -half in addition to 
holiday pay for all time authorized for work on the day designated as the holiday, or compensatory time and one -
half off as determined by the department or agency. 
 
 (c) Days celebrated as holidays in continuing operations.  
 
(1) In continuing seven-day-a-week operations, employees will observe the actual holiday, if possible, and will 
receive the employee’s regular straight time rate for each of the designated holidays, if the employee is 
normally scheduled to work on the day that has been designated as a holiday.  
 
(2) If the holiday is observed on a day of the week when an employee is not normally scheduled to work, the 
employee shall observe the employee’s next regularly scheduled work day as a holiday and receive holiday 
pay at the employee’s regular straight time rate. 
 
(3) An employee wh o is required to work on the actual holiday shall be paid time and one -half in addition to 
holiday pay for all time authorized for work on the day designated as the holiday, or compensatory time and 
one-half off as determined by the department or agency.

=== 2021-09-13 minutes, page 72 of 102 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 76 
(d) Days celebrated as holidays when employee is on a compressed or alternate work schedule. 
 
(1)  Employees shall observe the actual holiday, if possible, and shall receive holiday pay at the employee’s regular 
straight time rate for the number of hours the employee would have been regularly scheduled to work on that day.  
(2)  If a holiday is observed on a day of the week when an employee is not normally scheduled to work, the 
employee shall observe the employee’s next regularly scheduled work day as a holiday and shall receive holiday 
pay for the number of hours the employee would have been regularly scheduled to work on that day. 
(3)  An employee who is required to work on the actual holiday shall be paid time and one -half in addition to 
holiday pay for all time authorized for work on the day designated as the holiday, or compensatory time and one -
half off as determined by the department or agency.  
 
(e)  Eligibility for holiday pay. To be eligible, the employee must work the full scheduled workday before and the full 
scheduled workday following the holiday, unless the employee is on a paid leave of absence. In Monday-through-Friday 
operations, there shall be no duplication or pyramiding of holiday pay. 
 
(f)  Failure to report for scheduled work. Any employee scheduled for work on a day designated as a holiday, who fails 
to report for work or absents himself or herself for that day, shall not be eligible for holiday pay or compensatory time 
off as the case may be. Regardless of whether the absence is approved or not, any employee scheduled to work on a 
holiday, who fails to work that holiday, must use paid leave time to be paid for that day.  
 
(g)  Temporary employees. Temporary/seasonal and part-time/ temporary employees do not receive holiday pay.  
 
SECTION 6.  Section 291-217 is added as a new section of the "Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County" by 
adding the language below: 
 
291-217 . - Parental Leave 
 
(a) Leave generally.  Eligible employees will be entitled to up to six (6) weeks of paid parental leave, depending on length of 
employment, following the birth of an employee’s child or the placement of a child with an employee in connection with 
adoption. This leave will run concurrently with Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA) leave, as applicable. This policy will 
be in effect for births or adoptions of children occurring on or after January 1, 2022. 
 
(b)  Eligibility.   
 (1) Employees must meet the following criteria to be eligible for six (6) weeks of parental leave: 
(A) Have been employed by the City for at least twelve (12) months  
(B) Have worked at least 1,250 hours during the twelve (12) consecutive months immediately preceding the 
date the leave would begin; and 
(C) Be a full- or part-time, regular employee (temporary employees and seasonal employees are not eligible 
for this benefit). 
 (2) Employees must meet the following criteria to be eligible for four (4) weeks of parental leave: 
(A) Have been employed by the City for at least six (6) months; and 
(B) Have worked at least 625 hours during the six (6) consecutive months immediately preceding the date 
the leave would begin; and 
(C) Be a full- or part-time, regular employee (temporary employees and seasonal employees are not eligible 
for this benefit). 
 (3)  Employees must meet the following criteria to be eligible for two (2) weeks of parental leave: 
(A) Have been employed by the City for at least three (3) months; and 
 
(B) Have worked at least 312.5 hours during the three (3) consecutive months immediately preceding the 
date the leave would begin; and 
(C) Be a full- or part-time, regular employee (temporary employees and seasonal employees are not eligible 
for this benefit). 
(4) in addition, employees must meet one of the following criteria: 
(A) Have given birth to a child; or 
(B) Be the legal or biological parent of a child, recently born or adopted, if that child is age 17 or younger. 
(C) The child must live in the same residence as the employee requesting the parental leave. 
 
(c)  Employees will be entitled to this paid parental leave no more than once in a rolling twelve (12)-month period, regardless 
of whether more than one birth or adoption event occurs within that twelve (12)-month time frame. 
 
(d) Pay.  Each week of paid parental leave is compensated at the employee’s regular, straight-time weekly pay. Paid parental 
leave will be paid on the employee’s regularly scheduled pay dates.

=== 2021-09-13 minutes, page 73 of 102 ===
September 13, 2021 
 
 77  
 
(e) When taken.  Upon approval by the human resources division, paid parental leave may be taken at any time during the six 
(6)-month period immediately following the birth or adoption of a child with the employee. Paid parental leave may not be 
used or extended beyond this six (6)-month time frame. 
 
(f)  Paid parental leave is separate from other leave time and shall not be deducted from an employee’s short-term disability 
or benefit leave accrual balance. 
 
(g)  Employees must take paid parental leave in one continuous period of leave. Any unused paid parental leave will be 
forfeited at the end of the eligible six (6)-month time frame. 
 
(h)  Upon separation for any reason, the employee will not be paid for any unused paid parental leave for which the employee 
was eligible. 
 
(i)  Implementation.  The human resources division is authorized to develop additional guidance and make decisions consistent 
with the intent of this leave. 
 
SECTION  7.  The expressed or implied repeal or amendment by this ordinance of any other ordinance or part of any other 
ordinance does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date 
of this ordinance.  Those rights, liabilities, and proceedings are continued, and penalties shall be imposed and enforced under 
the repealed or amended ordinance as if this ordinance had not been adopted.  
 
SECTION 8.  Should any provision (section, paragraph, sentence, clause, or any other portion) of this ordinance be declared 
by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, the remaining provision or provisions shall not be affected, 
if and only if such remaining provisions can, without the invalid provision or provisions, be given the effect intended by the 
Council in adopting this ordinance.  To this end the provisions of this ordinance are severable. 
 
SECTION 9.  This ordinance shall be in effect from and after its passage by the Council and compliance with Ind. Code § 36-
3-4-14. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 288, 2021.  Councillor Mascari reported t hat the Administration and Finance 
Committee heard Proposal No. 288, 2021 on S eptember 7, 2021.  The proposal, sponsored by 
Councillor Mas cari, approves revisions to the City of Indian apolis and Marion County's 
membership in the Public Employees' Retirement Plan administered by the Public Retirement 
System to revise, effective January 1, 2022, membership options for new city and county employees 
and employees that transfer between  City agencies/offices/departments and County 
agencies/offices/departments, to allow those employees the choice of the PERF Hybrid or the PERF 
MyChoice: Retirement Savings Plan; and, to amend the default provision for failing to select a 
specific plan within sixty(60) days of employment to the PERF Hybrid Plan.  By an 11-0 vote, the 
committee recommended the proposal to the full Council with the recommendation that it do pass.  
Councillor Mascari moved, seconded by Councillor Adamson, for adoption.  Proposal No. 28 8, 
2021 was adopted on the following roll call vote; viz: 
 
24 YEAS: Adamson, Bain, Barth, Boots, Brown, Carlino, Dilk, Evans-E, Evans-J, Graves, Gray, 
Hart, Jackson, Jones, Larrison, Lewis, Mascari, McCormick, Mowery, Oliver, Osili, Potts, Ray, 
Robinson 
0 NAYS:  
1 ABSENT: Annee 
 
Proposal No. 288, 2021 was r etitled GENERAL RESOLUTION  NO. 12, 2021, and reads as 
follows: 
 
CITY-COUNTY GENERAL RESOLUTION NO. 12, 2021 
 
A PROPOSAL FOR A GENERAL RESOLUTION electing to join the Public Employees’ Retirement Plan as 
administered by the Indiana Public Retirement System.

=== 2021-09-13 minutes, page 74 of 102 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 78 
WHEREAS, the City -County Council of the City of Indianapolis and of Marion County, Indiana (“City-County 
Council”) is the governing body of the Consolidated City of Indianapolis and Marion County, a political subdivision or 
miscellaneous participating entity in the STATE OF INDIANA ; and 
 
WHEREAS, the City-County Council adopted a resolution effective January 1, 2017 (GR No. 12, 2016) to set forth 
its election to join the Public Employees’ Retirement Plan as administered by the Indiana Public Retirement System; and  
 
WHEREAS, the City-County Council is adopting this general resolution to modify the options for new employees 
to be effective January 1, 2022, and this general resolution, once adopted and effective, will supersede and replace its GR 
No. 12, 2016; and  
 
WHEREAS, for the purposes of this document and interpretation of statutes governing the Public Employees’ 
Retirement Fund (“PERF”), “Plan” refers to the public employees’ defined contribution plan under IC 5-10.3-12 (“PERF 
My Choice: Retirement Sav ings Plan”).  “Fund” refers to the PERF Hybrid defined benefit pension fund (“ PERF 
Hybrid”); and 
 
WHEREAS, political subdivisions may participate in PERF My Choice: Retirement Savings Plan and choose 
whether employees are required to become members of the Plan, the Fund or may choose membership in either the Plan 
or the Fund; and 
 
WHEREAS,  the governing body is fully cognizant that, if it is resolved that the governing body will place any 
employees in the Fund, the percentage of cost of gross annual payroll of covered employees has been set at 11.2% by the 
actuary of the Fund, and that the Board of Trustees of the Indiana Public Retirement System directs the actuary to annually 
review the status of the employees covered and shall adjust the cost percentage accordingly so that he Fund will remain 
on an actuarially sound basis; and 
 
 
WHEREAS, the governing body is fully cognizant that, if it is resolved that the governing body will require 
employees to enter the Plan or offer employees a choice between Fund and Plan membership, the governing body shall 
submit a resolution with the following information regarding their participation in the Plan: 
1. Specify the political subdivision’s contribution rate to the plan as a percentage of each member’s 
compensation AND pay such contributions as required under IC 5-10.3 -12-23 and IC 5- 10.3-12-24.5.  
Such rates must be greater than or equal to zero percent (0%) and may not exceed the percentage that 
would produce the normal cost for participation in the fund under IC 5-10.2-2-11. 
2. Specify the political subdivision’s matching rate that is the percentag e of each member’s additional 
contributions to the plan that the political subdivision will match.  A political subdivision may specify 
only: 
(1) zero percent (0%); or 
(2) fifty percent (50%). 
3.   Specify whether the political subdivision will pay any par t of a member’s contribution on behalf of the 
member; 
4.  Specify whether employees will automatically be enrolled in the Fund or the Plan if an eligible employee 
does not make an affirmative election; and 
 
WHEREAS, if such governing body participates in Fund, such governing body acknowledges its liability and that, 
pursuant to law, it and its successors in office, must appropriate sufficient funds each year to retire the employees’ prior 
service liability in an orderly manner and also fund the current cost accruing annually; and 
 
WHEREAS, if such governing body participates in Plan,  such governing body acknowledges its liability and that, 
pursuant to law, it and its successors in office, must appropriate sufficient funds each year to meet all contribut ion 
obligations required by law; and 
 
WHEREAS, such governing body acknowledges and agrees to make a supplemental contribution (7.2% for FY 
2021 and 7.3% as of FY 2022) to the fund in an amount necessary to pay the employer’s share of the fund’s actuarial 
unfunded liability that other employers would otherwise be required to pay because the employer’s employees are 
becoming members of the plan instead of the fund; and 
 
WHEREAS, such governing body acknowledges and agrees, when an employee separates from service before the 
member is fully vested in the employer contribution subaccount, the amount in the employer contribution subaccount is 
forfeited as of the date the memb er separates from service and that such forfeited amounts shall be used to reduce the 
unfunded accrued liability of the fund as determined under IC 5-10.2 -2-11(a)(3) and IC 5 -10.2-2-11(a)(4).  Employers

=== 2021-09-13 minutes, page 75 of 102 ===
September 13, 2021 
 
 79  
without an unfunded liability, such as employers joining PERF for the first time and offering only Plan membership, such 
forfeited amounts will be returned to the employer in the form of a credit to the  employer contribution subaccount; and 
 
WHEREAS, the General Assembly of the State of Indiana has authorized covered employers to pick up all or part 
of members’ mandatory contributions; now, therefore: 
 
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE  
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA: 
 
SECTION 1.  The Consolidated City of Indianapolis and M arion County continues its election to be a participating 
political subdivision or miscellaneous participating entity in the Public Employees’ Retirement Fund by including classes 
of employees as stated below in the coverage under Chapter 340 of the Acts of 1945, and all Acts amendatory thereof 
and supplemental thereto. 
 
SECTION 2. The Consolidated City of Indianapolis and Marion County elects to offer the following retirement plan(s) 
under the Public Employees’ Retirement Fund: 
 _____  PERF Hybrid 
 _____  PERF My Choice: Retirement Savings Program 
_____   Both PERF Hybrid and PERF My Choice: Retirement Savings Plan  to all employees  allowing the 
employee to choose in which retirement plan the employee will participate, based upon the 
employee’s previous participation in the Fund or the Plan. 
_____   PERF My Choice: Retirement Savings Plan, in addition to PERF Hybrid, for which this governing 
body has already submitted a resolution to join PERF Hybrid. 
__X__   PERF Hybrid only to certain classes of employees and PERF My Choice: Retirement Savings Plan  to 
certain classes of employees as set forth in the attached document. 
__X___ Both PERF Hybrid and PERF My Choice: Retirement Savings Plan to certain classes  of employees, 
as set forth in an attached document, allowing those employees to choose in which retirement plan 
the employee will participate, based upon the employee’s previous participation in the Fund or the 
Plan. 
If PERF My Choice in any format is sel ected above; please indicate whether PERF Hybrid retirees 
will be allowed to participate in PERF My Choice.  If one of the checkboxes below is not selected, 
the default will be that no PERF Hybrid retirees will be allowed to participate in PERF My Choice. 
 
_____ Yes, PERF Hybrid retirees will be allowed to participate in PERF My Choice 
__X___No, PERF Hybrid retirees will not be allowed to participate in PERF My Choice 
 
SECTION 3.   If an employee is eligible to choose membership in either the Fund or the Plan, and that employee 
fails to make an election within the period set forth in IC 5 -10.3-12-20 and 35 IAC 1.3-4 -1, said employee will be 
automatically and irrevocably enrolled in the following plan: 
 
 __ X____ PERF Hybrid 
 ______ PERF My Choice: Retirement Savings Plan 
 
SECTION 4.  Effective as of the 1
st day of January 2017 and continuing in effect after the adoption of this Resolution, 
this participating political subdivision or miscellaneous participating entity shall pick up 100% of the mandatory 
contribution for all employees who are members of PERF.  Said employees shall not be entitled to choose to receive the 
contributed amounts directly instead of having them paid by the employer to the specified pension fund. 
 
CHOOSE EITHER 4A OR 4B 
 
_X__ 4A.  New Money Pick-Up – That the above contributions, even though designated as employee contributions for 
state law purposes, are being paid by the employer in addition to the regular compensation as a supplemental contribution 
that is separate and distinct fro m the employees’ current or future compensation, and in lieu of contributions by the 
employees.  Such contributions will not be included in the gross income of the employees for any tax reporting purposes, 
such as for federal, state or local income tax withholding, or FICA taxes, until distributed either through a pension benefit 
or a lump sum payment.  These contributions are made on a pre -tax basis and are paid by the employer on behalf of the 
employee. 
 
___ 4B.  Salary Reduction Pick-Up – That said contributions, even though designated as employee contributions for state 
law purposes, are being paid by the employer via a reduction in salary.  Such contributions will not be included in the 
gross income of the employees for certain tax reporting purposes, t hat is for federal, state and local income tax 
withholding, until distributed either through a pension benefit or a lump sum payment.  Such contributions will be

=== 2021-09-13 minutes, page 76 of 102 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 80 
included in the gross income of the employees for FICA taxes when they are made.  These contri butions are made on a 
pre-tax basis but are paid by the employee through a payroll deduction. 
 
SECTION 5.  The Consolidated City of Indianapolis and Marion County, as a participating political subdivision, offering 
the Plan, agrees to pay a contribution ra te to the Plan as a percentage of each member’s compensation in the amount of 
1% for FY 2021 and 0.9% for FY 2022.   This amount may range from 0% to the percentage that would produce the 
normal cost for participation in the fund under IC 5-10.2-2-11. 
 
SECTION 6.  The Consolidated City of Indianapolis and Marion County, as a participating political subdivision, offering 
the Plan, agrees to pay a matching rate in the amount of: 
 
 ____ Fifty Percent (50%) 
 __X__ Zero Percent (0%) 
 
which is the percentage of each member’s additional voluntary contributions to the Plan that governing body will match. 
 
SECTION 7.  The positions listed on the attached documents are declared covered by the Fund, the Plan, or Both as 
indicated in the  Consolidated City of Indianapolis and Marion County Public Employees’ Retirement Fund (PERF) 
Coverage by Employee Classification, attached hereto and incorporated as Exhibit A. 
 
SECTION 8.  It is hereby declared that none of the classifications or positions specified in Section Three (3) are 
compensated on a fee basis or of an emergency nature, or in a part-time category. 
 
SECTION 9.  The active participation membership of the Consolidated City of Indianapolis and Marion County began 
on January 1, 2017 and shall continue with the adoption of this Resolution. 
 
SECTION 10.  This resolution shall be in full force and effect from da te of passage and upon approval of the Board of 
Trustees of the Indiana Public Retirement System, except that active participating membership shall begin on the date 
set forth in Section Nine (9). 
 
SECTION 11.  Should any provision (section, paragraph, sen tence, clause, or any other portion) of this ordinance be 
declared by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, the remaining provision  or provisions shall 
not be affected.  If an only if such remaining provisions can, without the in valid provision or provisions, be given the 
effect intended by the Council in adopting this ordinance.  To this end the provisions of this ordinance are severable. 
 
SECTION 12.  This resolution shall be in effect from and after its passage by the Council and compliance with Ind. Code 
§ 36-3-4-14. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 289, 2021.  Councillor Mascari reported t hat the Administration and Finance 
Committee heard Proposal No. 289 , 2021 on August 31,  2021.  The proposal, sponsored by 
Councillor Mascari, revises the structure of the information services agency to absorb the functions 
formerly performed by the telecom and video services agency, while mai ntaining continuity of 
operations and services; to grant the information technology board the responsibilities a nd 
authorities formerly exercised by the telecom and video services board .  By a 12 -0 vote, the 
committee recommended the proposal to the full Council with the recommendation that it do pass.  
Councillor Mascari moved, seconded by Councillor Adamson, for adoption.  Proposal No. 28 9, 
2021 was adopted on the following roll call vote; viz: 
 
 
24 YEAS: Adamson, Bain, Barth, Boots, Brown, Carlino, Dilk, Evans-E, Evans-J, Graves, Gray, 
Hart, Jackson, Jones, Larrison, Lewis, Mascari, McCormick, Mowery, Oliver, Osili, Potts, Ray, 
Robinson 
0 NAYS:  
1 ABSENT: Annee

=== 2021-09-13 minutes, page 77 of 102 ===
September 13, 2021 
 
 81  
Proposal No. 289, 2021 was retitled GENERAL ORDINANCE NO. 39, 2021, and reads as follows: 
 
CITY-COUNTY GENERAL ORDINANCE NO. 39, 2021 
 
PROPOSAL FOR A GENERAL ORDINANCE to amend the Revised Code to incorporate the telecom and video services 
agency into the information services agency, to consolidate the agencies’ governing boards, and to make related changes. 
 
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE 
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA: 
 
SECTION 1. Sections 181 -702 and 281-201 through 281-233 of the “Revised Code of the Consolidated City and 
County,” regarding the Marion County Information Technology Board and the Information Services Agency (ISA), 
hereby are amended by the deletion of the language that is stricken and the addition of the language that is underscored, 
to read as follows: 
 
Sec. 181-702.  Authorization to make public purpose grants.  
 
(a) Any city department of the city  or county agency that has a governing body  may make a public purpose 
grant upon the adoption of a resolution by the governing body of the department finding that a public purpose 
grant is necessary and desirable in the public interest and in furtherance of a purpose for which the city  
department or county agency is otherwise authorized to expend public moneys.  
 
(b)  A public purpose grant of the type described in section 181- 601(2) may be made only by the department of 
metropolitan development upon the adoption of a resolution by the metropolitan devel opment commission.  
 
(c)  A public purpose grant may be made upon conditions and terms deemed appropriate by the city department 
or county agency  making the grant.  
 
(d)  The authority to make a public purpose grant is within the discretion of the appropria te city department or 
county agency and its governing body, and no department shall be compelled to make any public purpose 
grant. 
 
Sec. 281-201. Definitions. 
 
As used in this article, the following terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them:  
 
(a) Board means the Marion County Information Technology Board.  
(b) Chief information officer means the director of the information services agency and team leader of  the IT 
team.  
(c) Council means the City-County Council of Indianapolis and Marion County.  
(d) ISA means the Information Services Agency of Indianapolis and Marion County.  
(e) IT means all aspects of information technology, data processing and related s ervices including 
telecommunications and the provision of governmental access video services channels, governmental access 
streaming video services, and website-driven programming.  
(f) IT team means the information technology integration and coordinating team.  
(g) Subject agencies  means any and all agencies, officers, offices, boards, commissions, divisions and 
departments of the city, of the county, units of township government in the county, and any court or 
prosecutor funded by the county.  
(h) Telecommunications means all aspects of telephone services, including voice, data and video transmission 
and equipment.  
(i) User means any and all subject agencies as defined herein and any and all other entities which use the 
services of ISA.  
(j) Enhanced access activities  means activities necessary for the provision of enhanced access services in 
accordance with Chapter 285, Article III of this Revised Code.  
 
Sec. 281-211. Board created; members; compensation. 
 
(a) To ensure enterprise -wide connectivity, comp atibility and integration of information technology and the cost -
effective provision of quality information systems and services, including telecommunications, there is hereby 
created the county information technology board, which shall consist of the following persons, who shall be 
appointed for the following terms:

=== 2021-09-13 minutes, page 78 of 102 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 82 
(1) Two (2) city officers appointed by the mayor of the city to serve at the pleasure of the mayor. One (1) such 
person shall be a representative for public safety agencies, and the other shall be a representative for public 
service agencies;  
(2) Three (3) of four (4) county constitutional officeholders, limited to the auditor, the clerk, the sheriff and the 
treasurer of the county, to be appointed by and serve at the pleasure of the council;  
(3) One (1) representative appointed by the presiding judges of  the county superior court, representing the 
judicial branch of local government;  
(4) Two (2) persons, with senior management experience which includes holding or having held line authority 
over the manager of the data processing area of an organization located in Marion County, that utilizes a 
large data processing installation comparable to the city -county installation, and that is not in the business 
of selling data processing equipment or services. One (1) such person shall be appointed by the council and 
the other by the mayor. The terms of such appointments shall be staggered by the initial appointment of the 
mayor's appointment to a three-year term and the council's appointment to a two-year term; thereafter each 
to serve for two-year terms but at the pleasure of the respective appointing authority; and  
(5) The Marion County Assessor.  
 
(b) The three constitutional officeholders and the assessor may serve by proxy. The officeholder shall appoint the 
proxy in writing annually. All other board members shall serve in person and not by proxy. Board Members shall 
serve without compensation, except that personal expenses incurred through service to the board, travel, lodging 
and fees may be reimbursed to the board member upon authorization of the board.  
 
Sec. 281-212. Powers and duties. 
 
(a) The board shall have the following powers and duties:  
 
(1)  To establish and revise information technology guidelines, standards and benchmark processes for 
subject agencies and other users;  
(2)  To establish and maintain procedures for the technology related planning, approval and quality 
review of information technology operations and initiatives;  
(3)  To assist in the formulation of policy concerning appropriation of funds for governmental access 
video services channels, governmental access streaming video services, and website driven 
programming, including:  
(A) The production of materials for use on governmental access video services channels, 
governmental access streaming video services, and website-driven programming;  
(B) The construction and maintenance of facilities for such production; and  
(C) The education of the public in the use of such facilities;  
(4)  To advise the mayor and the council in the formulation and implementation of policy on video 
services communications, on governmental access video services channels and streaming video 
services, and website driven programming, as well as other governmental, educational and public 
access issues; 
(35)  To review, approve and administer major IT contracts;  
(46)  To define at least five (5) functional classifications for representation of the various subject agencies 
on the IT team;  
(57)  To review and make recommendations concerning all information budgets, and approve all operating 
systems, contracts and expenditures for IT services, equipment purchase, rent or lease, consultants, 
management or technical personnel, studies, programs and IT materials or supplies for any and all 
users;  
(68)  To conduct studies and evaluations of any and all IT needs and current systems operations of users;  
(79)  To contract for technical and specialized assistance in administering its duties;  
(810) To require annual IT service plans and resources inventories from all users;  
(911)  To develop, maintain and communicate IT services  policy and administrative procedures for users 
and an IT services master plan for users;  
(1012)  To employ, or retain by personal services contract, a chief information officer, who shall have such 
duties as established herein, to serve at the pleasure of the board;  
(1113)  To promulgate rules and regulations for the efficient administration of its policies and procedures for 
users;  
(1214)  To develop and oversee adherence to standards for security and confidentiality of all data, 
information and telecommunication systems, including backup/recovery plans;  
(1315)  The exclusive power to select and contract with telecommunication providers for all city and county 
offices and agencies, whose expenditures for such services are paid from funds subject to 
appropriation by the city-county council;

=== 2021-09-13 minutes, page 79 of 102 ===
September 13, 2021 
 
 83  
(1416)  To delegate any  functions to the chief information officer or the IT team, subject to review by the 
board.  
 
(b) In addition to the powers and duties described in subsection (a), the board shall perform all enhanced access 
activities under Chapter 285, Article III of this Revised Code.  
 
(c) Should any powers granted by this article conflict with powers granted under IC 36-8-15-1 et seq. or sections 285-
611 et seq. of this Code or Chapter 851 or Article I of Chapter 285, the provisions of IC 36-8 -15-1 et seq. or 
sections 285-611 et seq. of this Code or Chapter 851 or Article I of Chapter 285 shall control.  
 
Sec. 281-213. Officers; quorum; meetings. 
 
(a) The officers of the board shall be a chairperson and a secretary. The chairperson and the secretary shall be elected 
by the board. All contracts, agreements, resolutions and official communications of the board shall be in writing 
and be executed by these officers upon being authorized by motion passed by the board by simple majority of its 
members present.  
 
(b) A quorum of the board for official action in session shall be five (5) members. Official minutes of meetings shall 
be kept by the chief information officer.  
 
(c) The board shall meet monthly at such place and time as may be set by the chairperson, and may meet at such other 
times and places as may be needed in special session called by the chairperson for a particular purpose. All 
meetings, whether regular or speci al, shall be open to the public. No official action may be taken by the board 
except at a public meeting, whether regular or special. Board members may confer from time to time in executive 
session without the necessity of calling a public meeting as applicable by law.  
 
Sec. 281-221. Chief information officer—Qualifications; responsibilities generally. 
 
(a) The board shall employ or retain by personal services contract a chief information officer.  
 
(b) The chief information officer shall have such qualifi cations and experience as set by the board. The chief 
information officer shall act as technical advisor and provide staff support for the board in its deliberations. The 
chief information officer shall have the authority and responsibility to act for the board in its name on a daily 
operational basis when the board is not in session, but all such action shall be subject to the review of the board.  
 
(c) The chief information officer shall manage and supervise ISA. The chief information officer shall be res ponsible 
for the planning, organization and management of ISA, within the organization plans and policies approved by the 
board.  
 
(d) The chief information officer shall be a member and team leader of the IT team.  
 
Sec. 281-222. Same—Powers and duties. 
 
The chief information officer shall have the following additional specific duties: 
  
(1)  To review IT activities, operations, requests and technical personnel of the users and provide 
recommendations on same to the subject agency or board; to oversee the overall management IT 
activities which are subject to this article;  
(2)  To manage all en terprise-wide IT contracts and assist in the management of the IT contracts of the 
subject agencies;  
(3)  To monitor IT budgets for contract administration;  
(4)  To monitor service level agreements and charges;  
(5)  To receive and review with comment and recommendations all reports, requests and documents for 
the board;  
(6)  To communicate for and on behalf of the board with the users, including subject agencies,  other 
governmental units and the private sector when the board is not in session;  
(7)  To receive budget proposals for IT services and operations for agencies of the consolidated city, the 
county, the courts and other users and to assist the board in review and evaluation of the budgets 
prior to their submission to the city-county council;  
(8)  To review all contracts for IT services, equipment lease, rent or purchase, materials, supplies, 
consultants, technical personnel, studies or programs for users, including specifically, ISA, and 
submit same with comment and recommendations to the board for its action;

=== 2021-09-13 minutes, page 80 of 102 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 84 
(9)  To coordinate the preparation of a master plan for IT operations for all users within the direction 
given from the board;  
(10)   To manage the operation of governmental access video services channels, governmental access 
streaming video services, and website driven programming, and to advise city and county agencies 
with respect to video service as generally defined in 47 USC § 522;  
(11)  To gr ant funds to entities with services designated for public, education, or governmental 
programming on the governmental access video services channels and streaming services, subject to 
the approval of the information technology board; 
(12)  To fulfill the functions designated in section 285-107 of the Code; and 
(1013) To implement all administrative rules and regulations promulgated by the board.  
 
Sec. 281-223. Board approval required for services. 
 
(a) The written approval of the board shall be obtained before any subject agency shall:  
 
(1) Acquire by contract, purchase, lease or rental of any data processing services, equipment, materials, 
supplies, programs or software; or  
(2) Acquire by contract, purchase, lease or rental of telephone or telecommunications services, equipment, 
materials or suppliesequipment, materials, or supplies relating to telephone or telecommunications services, 
or to governmental access video services channels, governmental access streaming video services, and 
website driven programming; or  
(3) Authorize or contract for studies, technical personnel or consultants r egarding data processing or 
telecommunications services (including governmental access video services channels, governmental access 
streaming video services, and website driven programming).  
 
(b) No subject agency or officer, employee or agent thereof shall purchase, lease, rent or contract for the use of any 
IT services, equipment, materials, supplies, IT studies, programs, technical personnel or consultants without first 
submitting a written proposal to the board for its review, recommendations and appro val. Any such purchase, 
lease, rental or contract entered into by a subject agency without the prior written approval of the board shall be 
voidable at the option of the board.  
 
Sec. 281-224. Appeal procedure. 
 
(a) Any subject agency or user which, in the opinion of that agency manager, feels aggrieved at a decision of the board 
concerning that agency's IT systems and services, including telecommunications, may file a written request for 
review of such decision with the chairperson of the board, who shall place such request on the agenda of the special 
meeting of the board for the purpose of appellate review. The board shall call a special meeting to hear the appeal, 
and for the purpose of special meetings for appeals, the board shall consist of the regular board members, plus the 
mayor or the mayor's designee and the president of the city-county council or such president's designee. The 
decision of this board shall be final, except as provided in subsection (b) below,  and shall be entered of record in 
the minutes of the board. In order to hear the appeal, the board shall have present at least four (4) of its regular 
members plus either the mayor (or designee) or the president of the city-county council (or such preside nt's 
designee).  
 
(b) Should an elected official feel that a decision resulting from appeal to this board constitutes a derogation of the 
elected official's powers, duties or responsibilities or otherwise feel aggrieved, the matter shall be heard and finally 
resolved by majority vote at a special meeting of the committee on rules and public policy of the city -county 
council with at least five (5) members present and voting. Such meeting shall be held within twenty-one (21) days 
of written request by the elected official.  
 
Sec. 281-231. Information services agency created. 
 
There is created the information services agency (ISA) which shall be under the policy supervision of the county 
information technology board through the chief information officer.  
 
Sec. 281-232. Reserved. 
 
Editor's note(s) —G.O. 202Editor's note(s) —, 1995, § 1, adopted Nov. 20, 1995, deleted, in effect repealed, § 281-
232Editor's note(s)—, which pertained to duties of director with respect to information services agency and derived 
from G.O. 2, 1993, § 4.

=== 2021-09-13 minutes, page 81 of 102 ===
September 13, 2021 
 
 85  
Sec. 281-233. Agency function. 
 
ISA shall provide IT services to those local government subject agencies and other users designated by the board 
according to the direction given by the board and to the master plan for the county as developed by the board in 
conjunction with the subject a gencies, including ISA and other users. ISA, subject to the board's direction, shall be the 
primary provider of services for the city, the county, the courts and all other approved users. With approval of the board, 
ISA may contract with other agencies, including nongovernmental entities, for the provision of IT systems and services, 
including telecommunications and governmental access video services channels, governmental access streaming video 
services, and website driven programming.  
 
SECTION 2. Sections 285-101 through 285-110 of the “Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County,” regarding 
franchise fees and formerly regarding the telecom and video services agency and board, hereby are amended by the 
deletion of the language that is stricken and the addition of the language that is underscored, to read as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I. – TELECOM AND VIDEO SERVICES AGENCY 
Sec. 285-101. Agency created. 
There is hereby created a telecom and video services agency as a separate agency of the consolidated city, 
responsible to the telecom and video services board.  
Sec. 285-102. Telecom and video services agency. 
The telecom and video services agency shall be administered by the telecom and video services agency subject to 
the approval of the telecom and video services board and approved by the council committee on rules and public policy.  
Sec. 285-103. Powers and functions. 
(a) The agency shall be responsible for the provisions regarding holders in section 285-107 of the Code.  
(b) The agency shall provide the administrative support for the telecom and video services board.  
(c) The agency shall be responsible for the operation of the governmental access video services channels and website 
driven programming.  
(d) The agency may, subject to the approval of the telecom and video services board, grant funds to entities with 
services designated for public, education, or governmental programming on the governmenta l access video 
services channels.  
(e) The agency shall be responsible for advising city and county agencies with respect to video service as generally 
defined in 47 USC § 522.  
Sec. 285-104. Telecom and video services board created. 
There is hereby established a telecom and video services board.  
Sec. 285-105. Membership. 
The telecom and video services board shall consist of five (5) members, each serving a two-year term expiring on 
December 31, selected as follows:  
(1) Two (2) members shall be appointed by the mayor to serve at his or her pleasure; and  
(2) Three (3) members shall be appointed by the city-county council to serve at its pleasure, one (1) of whom 
shall be selected by the board as its chairman.  
If a vacancy occurs, the appointment shall be for the unexpired term.  
Sec. 285-106. Powers of board. 
(a) The telecom and video services board shall supervise the telecom and video services agency.  
(b) The telecom and video services board shall advise the mayor and the council in the formulation and implementation 
of policy on video services communications, governmental, educational and public access issues and promote 
citizen participation in that process by dissemination of information and encouragement of other governmental, 
educational, and public entities to participate.  
(c) The telecom and video services board may assist in the formulation of policy concerning appropriation of funds 
for:  
(1) The production of materials for use on access channels;  
(2) The construction and maintenance of facilities for such production; and  
(3) The education of the public in the use of such facilities;  
and to make written recommendations to the council and the mayor regarding the making of applications for financial 
assistance and the use of grant funds received pursuant to such applications.  
(d) The telecom and video services board may recommend and assist in the creation of a nonprofit public, educational 
and governmental access corporation to promote and develop maximum community involve ment in and use of 
video services for public, educational and governmental and other nonprofit purposes and to administer use of 
access channels. Such access corporations may be funded by: Foundation, corporate, governmental, other 
philanthropic grants and private donations; and, the allocation of all appropriate funds from each video services 
franchise fee.

=== 2021-09-13 minutes, page 82 of 102 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 86 
ARTICLE I. – FRANCHISE FEES FOR VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDERS IN MARION COUNTY 
 
Sec. 285-107. Provisions regarding holders. 
 
(a) Application. This section shall apply to any holder of a certificate ("holder") from the Indiana Utility Regulatory 
Commission that provides video service in the county, as those italicized terms are defined in IC 8-1-34.  
 
(b) Franchise fees payments. A holder shall pay to the city franchise fees pursuant to IC 8-1 -34-24, which are based 
upon the holder's gross revenue, as defined in IC 8-1-34-5, derived quarterly from its operations to provide video 
services within the county.  
 
(1) The city may conduct periodic audits of the operator's records to determine compliance with this provision 
pursuant to IC 8-1 -34-24(c). The city's acceptance of the operator's franchise fee payments does not 
constitute an accord and satisfaction nor are such payments in lieu of any other f ees, taxes, or payments 
owed by the operator.  
(2) If the holder and city cannot agree on the amount of gross revenue on which the franchise fee should be 
based, city may petition the Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission according to IC 8-1-34-24(c).  
(3) Interest on unpaid fees. The operator shall pay simple interest at the rate of eight (8) percent per annum on 
all franchise fees which remain unpaid after the date they are due until the fees are paid.  
 
(c) Reports to be filed.  With each quarterly paymen t of a franchise fee remitted to the city pursuant to IC 8 -1-34-
25(cd), a holder shall include a statement explaining the basis for the calculation of the franchise fee to the 
controller's office, and the controller's office shall provide a copy to the Information Services Agency telecom and 
video services agency upon request.  
 
(d) City inspections; maintenance of records. 
 
(1) The city may review the books and records of the holder to the extent necessary to ensure the holder's 
compliance with IC 8 -1-34-23 in calculating the gross revenue upon which the remitted franchise fee is 
based. The city shall have the right to inspect the holder's video service system over the public rights of way 
during normal business hours.  
(2) The city shall bear its own costs of all inspections.  
 
(e) Video services to community public buildings.  If a holder is required to provide service to community public 
buildings according to the terms of its local franchise agreement that was in effect on June 30, 2006, it is required 
to provide such service upon request requests pursuant to IC 8-1-34-29.  
 
(f) Public, educational, or governmental access channels, facilities and equipment or financial support shall be 
provided according to IC 8-1-34-29Sections 8-1-34-25 through 8-1-34-27.  
 
(g) Interconnection of institutional networks.  If a holder's former franchise agreement requires the provision of an 
institutional network under the terms of the former local franchise agreement that was in effect on June 30, 2006, 
then the holder whose video service system is in place as of the effective date of this ordinance shall be entitled to 
apportion the incremental costs among all holders that provide video service within a unit pursuant to IC 8- 1-34-
29(d).  
 
Sec. 285-108. Use of public ways 
 
(a) The holder shall comply with the provisions of this code regarding the use and occupation of public rights-of-way 
of the city including, but not limited to, Article II of Chapter 645 of the Code, and the payment of all generally 
applicable fees so long as such fees are not inconsistent with IC 8- 1-34, federal law and any other applicable law 
for the provision of such charges and that such charges are not specific to any one operator or utility providing 
services in the city over or under the public rights-of-way.  
 
(b) All poles, cables, towers, lines, and other equipment and fixtures placed by the holder within the public ways, 
whether above, on, or below ground, of the city shall be so located as to cause minimum interference with other 
authorized users of the public ways and adjoining premises.  
 
(c) If the disturbance of any public way is necessary, the holder shall comply with all requirements of the city relevant 
to such disturbance.

=== 2021-09-13 minutes, page 83 of 102 ===
September 13, 2021 
 
 87  
(d) If at any time during the period of the franchise the city shall deem it necessary to change the location of any pole, 
cable, tower, line and other equipment or fixture located in any public way, either above, on, or below ground, the 
holder, upon reasonable notice by the city and reasonable time for compliance, shall relocate its poles, cables, 
towers, lines, and other equipment and fixtures at no cost to the city, however the holder may pass through such 
costs as may be allowed under applicable law.  
 
(e) The holder shall have the authority to trim trees upon and overhanging the public ways of the city so as to prevent 
the branches of such trees from coming in contact with the cables and the equipment of the holder, except that, at 
the option of the city, such trimming may be done by it or under its supervision and dir ection. Should the city 
determine to perform such trimming the holder shall not be liable for any reimbursement unless otherwise 
previously and mutually agreed upon between the parties.  
 
(f) In all sections of the city where the cables, wires or other like facilities of public utilities are placed underground, 
the holder shall place its cables and other equipment underground to the maximum extent it can be accomplished 
using proven technology generally used by the video services industry for comparable systems.  
 
(g) A holder having a state certificate of video franchise authority to operate a video service system for only a portion 
of the city shall have the right to use the public ways throughout the city as necessary or advisable for the efficient 
construction, operation and maintenance of that system, provided that video services may be provided only to 
subscribers located within the area of the holder's designated service area. Use of the public ways outside of the 
holder's designated service area to co nstruct, operate, or maintain the holder's video service system shall not 
unreasonably interfere with the construction, operation and maintenance of a video service system by a holder who 
has, or thereafter obtains, a state certificate of video franchise authority to serve subscribers in such outside area. 
The city shall have power to promulgate rules and regulations with respect to jointly used public ways as 
considered necessary or desirable.  
 
(h) Notice to occupants of property. Unless in the event of an emergency repair prior to the start of construction within 
any easement other than a public street right -of-way, the holder must give written notice to all affected property 
occupants, if reasonable to do so, informing them that the holder will be working in the area affecting such property 
occupants. Such notice shall include a telephone number, which may be called by property occupants who 
encounter any problems or damages as a result of such work by the holder. Such notice may be by direct mail, 
email, local newspaper, door hanger or similar method of communication as determined by the operator.  
 
(i) Holder responsibility for damages.  The holder shall be responsible for repairs to public or private property 
necessitated by damage caused by or resulting from the holder's or holder's subcontractors' construction operation, 
or maintenance of the system. 
  
(j) Deadlines for repair of public and private property; lawn repair.  The repair of public and private property 
damaged during construction, operation, or maintenance of the holder's system shall be completed no later than 
sixty (60) days after notice to the holder of the damage unless otherwise not possible due to inclement weather 
conditions or for any other reason not within the control of the operator.  Lawns shall be repaired to the 
preconstruction condition however it is understood preconstruction condition does not mean original condition.  
 
(k) Safety requirements. 
 
(1) The holder shall at all times comply with all safety requirements of the Code.  
(2) The holder shall at all times employ reasonable care and shall install and maintain in use commonly accepted 
methods and devices for preventing failures and accidents which are likely to cause damage, injury or 
nuisance to the public.  
(3) All cables and other equipment within the public ways of the city shall at all times be kept and maintained 
in as safe condition and by generally acceptable practices used by the video services industry for comparable 
systems.  
(4) Operation of the system shall not cause any interference to television and radio reception, telephone 
communication, or other similar operations within the county.  
 
Sec. 285-109. Powers reserved to other entities. 
 
(a) Pursuant to IC 8-1-34-16(a), the Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission is the exclusive franchising authority, as 
defined in 47 USC 522(10), for the provision of video service in Indiana. Pursuant to the federal regulation, 47 
CFR 76.309, the Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission shall be the sole authority to address consumer 
complaints regarding telecommunications and video services.

=== 2021-09-13 minutes, page 84 of 102 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 88 
(b) Pursuant to IC 8-1-34-16(b), state law preserves for the city the limited power to enforce an ordinance governing 
the use of public rights -of-way. In accordance therewith, section 285 -108 of the Code shall be enforced by the 
department of public works.  
 
Sec. 285-110. Council oversight. 
 
Whenever the information services agency telecom and video services agency or the information technology board 
telecom and video services board determines that an issue raised with respect to telecommunications or video services is 
beyond the authority of the agency or board or raises questions of the public policy, such issues may be referred to the 
council committee on rules and public policy.  
 
SECTION 3. This ordinance shall be in full force and effect upon adoption and compliance with IC 36-3-4- 14. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 291, 202 1.  Councillor Robinson reported that the Public Safety and Crimina l 
Justice Committee heard Proposal No. 291, 2021 on September 8, 2021.  The proposal, sponsored 
by Councillor Robinson, revises the structure of the Office of Public Health and Safety to recognize 
its new divisions and the creation of the Assessment & Intervention Center; creates the 
Metropolitan Emergency Services Agency, with divisions of emergency management, public safety 
communications, and emergency dispatch, absorbing functions previously performed by divisions 
of the Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department, t he Office of Public Health and Safety, the 
Marion County Sheriff's Office, and the Indianapolis Fire Department; creates an emergency 
services agency board and an emergency management advisory commission in accordance with 
state statute; and revises the ordinance governing Indianapolis Emergency Medical Services.  By a 
13-0 vote, the committee recommended the proposal to the full Council with the recommendation 
that it do pass as amended.  Councillor Robinson moved, seconded by Councillor Adamson, for 
adoption.  Proposal No. 291, 2021 was adopted on the following roll call vote; viz: 
 
24 YEAS: Adamson, Bain, Barth, Boots, Brown, Carlino, Dilk, Evans-E, Evans-J, Graves, Gray, 
Hart, Jackson, Jones, Larrison, Lewis, Mascari, McCormick, Mowery, Oliver, Osili, Potts, Ray, 
Robinson 
0 NAYS:  
1 ABSENT: Annee 
 
Proposal No. 291, 2021 was retitled GENERAL ORDINANCE NO. 40, 2021, and reads as follows: 
 
CITY-COUNTY GENERAL ORDINANCE NO. 40, 2021 
 
PROPOSAL FOR A GENERAL ORDINANCE to amend the Revised Code to create a county emergency services agency, 
to revise the ordinance concerning the office of public health and safety, and for other purposes. 
 
 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE 
 CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA: 
 
SECTION 1.  Sections 202-711 through 202-713 of the "Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County," regarding the 
office of public health and safety, hereby are amended by the deletion of the language that is stricken and the addition of the 
language that is underscored, to read as follows: 
 
Sec. 202-711. - Office of public health and safety created; duties and divisions. 
 
There is hereby created the office of public health and safety for the city as authorized by IC 36-3-4-23. The office 
shall exercise those powers and duties granted by statute, this code, or as designated by the mayor, to discharge i ts 
responsibilities to provide for public safety communications systems, emergency medical services, administration of 
the Reuben engagement center, oversight of offender re -entry services, and to operate any other division or function 
of this office as th e mayor from time to time may designate by executive order in the areas of community violence 
reduction, homelessness, re-entry services, and community nutrition and food policy. The office shall also be responsible 
for administration of the Assessment & Intervention Center, and it will discharge any other functions or responsibilities 
as the mayor from time to time may designate by executive order.

=== 2021-09-13 minutes, page 85 of 102 ===
September 13, 2021 
 
 89  
The office shall be comprised of the divisions of:  
(1) Public safety communications; 
(2) Indianapolis emergency medical services; 
(3) Reuben engagement center; 
(4) Re-entry services; 
(5) Public health and safety administration; and 
(6) Community nutrition and food policy. 
(1) Re-entry services;  
(2) Homelessness; 
(3)    Community violence reduction; and  
(4) Community nutrition and food policy.  
 
Sec. 202-712. - Appointment of the director; powers and duties. 
 
The administration of the office shall be under the control of the director, who shall be appointed by the mayor 
after consultation with the sheriff and be subject to city-county council confirmation. The director shall serve at the 
pleasure of the mayor. The director shall have prior service with a local, federal or state law enforcement agency, 
emergency management agency, emergency medical services agency, or fire department,  prior experience in the fields 
of criminal justice, public safety, public healt h, or social services,  have had command or supervisory experience, have 
received a four -year degree from an accredited institution of higher education and have demonstrated an interest in 
safeguarding the citizens and property of the consolidated city. The  director shall hold no other lucrative elective or 
appointive office in city, county or state government during the director's term of office. The director of the office shall 
advise the mayor on matters of health and public safety and shall exercise control of all matters, personnel, and property 
relating to and connected with the office and its divisions, including the authority to:  
 
(1) Oversee, supervise and coordinate the activities and operations of the office and its divisions  divisions 
within this office;  
 
(2) Appoint a chief of the division of public safety communications, and administrators for the Reuben 
engagement center, community nutrition and food policy, and the division of re -entry services;  
 
(3) With respect to Indianapolis emergency medical services, the director shall oversee the division, as 
provided in section 202-731 of this chapter or otherwise provided by law or agreement;  
 
(4) With respect to public safety communications, the director shall be responsible for financing, purchasing, 
contracting for, acquiring, leasing, constructing, equipping, erecting, upgrading, and insta lling a public 
safety communications system and computer facilities for all participating public safety and public 
service agencies in the public safety communications and computer facilities district established under 
IC 36-8-15-7; 
(2) Appoint an administ rator for the Assessment & Intervention Center and administrators for each of the 
office’s divisions;  
(35) Execute contracts subject to the authority of the mayor and any other limitations prescribed by law;  
(46) Prepare and submit the office's budget to the controller; and  
(57) Delegate to the personnel of the office the authority to act on behalf of the director.  
 
Sec. 202-713. - Board of the office of public health and safety. 
 
(a) Established. There is hereby established a board of the office of public health and safety pursuant to IC 36- 3-
4-23; and concurrent and therewith is also established pursuant to IC 36-8 -15-2 with respect to public safety 
communications and computer facilities as these  terms are described in IC 36 -8-15.  
 
(b) Members. The board shall be composed of five (5) members: the director of the office of health and safety who 
serves as presiding member of the board; two (2) members appointed by the mayor and two (2) members appointed by 
the city-county council. Each appointed member shall serve a one-year term and until his or her successor is appointed 
and qualified, but serves at the pleasure of the appointing authority. In the event of a vacancy prior to the expiration of a 
term, the appointing authority shall appoint a member for the remainder of the unexpired term. The members of the 
board of public safety as of April 11, 2016 as appointed by the mayor and city -county council respectively shall be 
the initial members of the board until December 31, 2016 or until successor or other members are appointed in 
accordance with this section.  
 
(c) Meetings. The board shall hold regular meetings at least once a month, at times and places prescribed by its 
rules or established by resolution. No notice to members is required for holding or taking any action at a regular meeting.

=== 2021-09-13 minutes, page 86 of 102 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 90 
A special meeting of the board may be called by the presiding officer or by two-fifths (⅖ ) of the members, at any place 
in the county designated in the call. Each  member shall be notified of the time and place of such a meeting by written 
notice that must be delivered, mailed or sent by telegram so that each member has at least seventy-two (72) hours' notice 
of the meeting. The notice requirements may be waived as to a member if he or she attends the meeting or executes a 
written waiver of notice. The waiver may be executed either before or after the meeting, but if executed after, it must 
state in general terms the purpose of the meeting.  
 
(d) Board action. A majority of all the members of the board constitutes a quorum. A majority vote of all the board 
members is required to pass a resolution or to take any other official action.  
 
(e) Powers. The board shall have the following powers in regard to the offic e of public health and safety and the 
city's police and fire departments.  
 
(1) To review all budgets prepared by the office of public health and safety and the city police and fire 
departments and to  make recommendations, to those directors,  that as to an y revisions the board feels 
desirable;  
(2) To approve the award and amendment of contracts let by the office of public health and safety and the city 
police and fire departments for the purchase or lease of capital equipment or other property where the 
contract is required to be bid under IC 5-22;  
(3) To approve the award and amendment of public construction contracts let by the office of public health and 
safety and the city police and fire departments that are required to be bid under IC 36-1-12;  
(4) To approve the acquisition of and leases for real estate by the office of public health and safety and the city 
police and fire departments;  
(5) To approve the employment of persons engaged by the office of public health and safety and the city police 
and fire departments by contract to render professional or consulting services;  
(6) To approve the disposal of property by the office of public health and safety and the city police and fire 
departments as specified in IC 36 -1-11, excluding leases of real property, pursuant to IC 36-1 -11, for the 
siting of cellular, digital personal communications systems, or other wireless communications systems 
towers and related equipment;  
(7) To make recommendations and suggestions the regarding the fiscal policy and management of the office of 
public health and safety and the city police and fire departments; and 
(8)  With respect to the public safety communications system, and computer facilities:  
a. To have, in accordance with IC 36 -8-15, the authority to finance, purchase, contract for, 
acquire, lease, construct, equ ip, erect, upgrade, install and maintain public safety 
communications and computer facilities for the public safety agencies that are subject to 
budget review by the city- county council;  
b.  To ensure that any public safety agency of a political subdivision located within Marion 
County shall be entitled to receive any such services and/or equipment provided to it 
upon the request of such public safety agency at a cost to the requesting public safety 
agency no greater than the cost charged to provide said eq uipment or services to a public 
safety agency who is subject to budget review by the city- county council;  
c.  To approve interlocal cooperation agreements with other political subdivisions for the 
financing, purchase, acquisition, lease, construction, equi pping, erection, upgrade and 
installation and public safety communications and computer facilities for public safety 
agencies that are not subject to budget review by the city -county council;  
d.  To coordinate all activities necessary to ensure compatibili ty of all public safety 
communications and computer systems within the public safety communications and 
computer facilities district established under IC 36 -8-15-7; and 
e. To exercise such other powers and perform such other duties as are granted to the ci ty 
and the county under IC 36-8-15 with respect to the implementation, financing, operation 
and maintenance of the public safety communications system and computer facilities; 
provided, however, no power or duty herein prescribed shall in any way be permit ted to 
derogate the powers, duties or responsibilities of any elected officials;  
provided that no bond to finance the purchase or lease of public safety communications systems or 
computer facilities equipment or the making of payments to a service provider under a contract for 
enhanced public safety communications systems or computer facilities shall be valid unless the 
council has first approved such bond; and  
 (8) Any other powers granted to the board by law or by the mayor or the city-county council.  
 
SECTION 2.  Sections 202-721 through 202-726 of the "Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County," regarding the 
division of public safety communications within the office of public health and safety, hereby are deleted in their entirety.

=== 2021-09-13 minutes, page 87 of 102 ===
September 13, 2021 
 
 91  
SECTION 3. Sections 202-731 through 202-735 of the “Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County,” regarding 
Indianapolis Emergency Medical Services, are hereby deleted in their entirety. 
 
SECTION 4. Existing Sections 202-741 through 202-747 of the “Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County,” 
regarding the Reuben Engagement Center, are hereby deleted in their entirety and replaced by the following text: 
 
DIVISION 4. – REUBEN ENGAGEMENT CENTER AT THE ASSESSMENT & INTERVENTION CENTER 
 
Sec. 202-741. - Facility. 
 
The Assessment & Intervention Center (AIC) will operate out of a dedicated facility as part of the City’s 
Community Justice Campus (CJC).  
 
Starting in 2020, the Albert G. and Sara I. Reuben Engagement Center will operate at the AIC facility, whose 
residential area will be named the Reuben Engagement Center at the Assessment & Intervention Center. Where used 
in the remainder of this chapter, the term “AIC” includes the Reuben Engagement Center at the Assessment & 
Intervention Center.  
 
Sec. 202-742. - Purpose. 
 
(a) The AIC will provide a safe location for individuals eighteen (18) years of age and older who are experiencing 
mental health, behavioral health, or substance abuse issues. The AIC is intended to serve as an alternative to 
hospitalization or arrest for such individuals. The AIC will additionally provide a place to recover from temporary 
intoxication and/or behavioral or mental health episodes, and will offer clients related services and referrals to other 
resources. 
 
(b) Pers ons are not required to have involvement or interaction with law enforcement or other first responder 
personnel prior to using the services of the AIC.  
 
(c) Eligible arrestees may use the services of the AIC if the Marion County Sheriff's Office and the Marion 
County Prosecutor's Office determine that the arrestee meets appropriate protocols.  
 
(d) The AIC will work with the Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department (IMPD), the mobile crisis assistance 
teams (MCAT), and other agencies to ensure that an e fficient, low -barrier process exists to voluntarily refer 
individuals eligible for AIC services to the AIC.  
 
(e) Providing services to individuals experiencing homelessness who otherwise meet AIC eligibility criteria will 
be a priority for the AIC, but the  AIC will not restrict its services exclusively to individuals experiencing 
homelessness. The AIC shall keep accurate records of individuals receiving its services who are experiencing 
homelessness.  
 
Sec. 202-743. - Organization. 
 
(a) The director of the O ffice of Public Health and Safety (OPHS) shall appoint an administrator who will be 
responsible for the day- to-day operations of the AIC. The administrator may be retained via contract with his or her 
employer.  
 
(b) The OPHS director may also appoint, employ, or contract with such other persons as the director deems 
necessary or desirable.  
 
(c) Contracts for such services as may be necessary or desirable in the operation of the engagement center, 
including staffing and management services consistent with a pplicable professional standards for the facility, shall be 
entered into by the office of public health and safety.  
 
Sec. 202-744. - Advisory board. 
 
The AIC advisory board is hereby established to help identify the barriers and gaps in serving those strug gling 
with mental health, homelessness, and chronic substance abuse. The board will use evidence -based research to suggest 
alternatives and recommend solutions to the identified gaps and barriers, and to educate AIC staff and policy makers 
regarding resear ch findings and recommendations.  
 
The board will serve as the successor to the Reuben Engagement Center advisory board.

=== 2021-09-13 minutes, page 88 of 102 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 92 
 
Sec. 202-745. - Board membership. 
 
(a)  The board shall be composed of sixteen (16) voting members who are residents of Marion County, and are 
actively working with those experiencing mental health issues, substance abuse issues (including drug and alcohol 
addiction), and/or homelessness, and have an interest in and knowledge of the barriers and needs of those experiencing 
such issues, and who are chosen as follows:  
 
(1) A representative from the Marion County Sheriff's Office, to be appointed by the sheriff;  
(2) A representative from the Marion County Prosecutor's Office, to be appointed by the prosecutor;  
(3) A representative fro m the Marion Superior Court or Marion County Probation, to be appointed by the 
executive committee of the Marion Superior Court;  
(4) A representative from the Marion County Public Defender Agency, to be appointed by the public defender;  
(5) A representativ e from Marion County Community Corrections, appointed by the director of Marion County 
Community Corrections;  
(6) A representative from the Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department, appointed by the chief of the 
Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Departme nt; 
(7) A representative from the faith -based community, to be appointed by the mayor;  
(8) A veteran of the armed forces, to be appointed by the mayor;  
(9) A representative from the Estate of Albert and Sara Reuben  Trust, to be appointed initially by the p resident 
of the city -county council, with subsequent appointments to be made by the city- county council;  
(10) The director of the Office of Public Health and Safety (OPHS) or his or her designee;  
(11) A professional provider of services for people experiencing homelessness, appointed by the president of the 
city-county council, with subsequent appointments to be made by the city -county council;  
(12) A mental health professional, representing the Sandra Eskenazi Mental Health Center, to be appointed by 
the mayor; 
(13) A substance abuse/addiction professional, to be initially appointed by the president of the city- county 
council, with subsequent appointments to be made by the city- county council;  
(14) A representative of Indianapolis Emergency Medical Services, to be appointed by the mayor;  
(15) A medical health professional, to be initially appointed by the president of the city -county council, with 
subsequent appointments to be made by the city- county council; and  
(16) A person who is experiencing or has recently experienced homelessness, to be appointed by a majority vote 
of the other fifteen (15) board members.  
 
In addition to the sixteen (16) voting members, the administrator of the AIC shall be an ex-officio, non- voting member 
of the board; provide d, however, that the administrator may vote if the administrator's vote is necessary to break a tie.  
 
(b)  Each board member shall serve at the pleasure of the appointing authority for a term ending December 31 
following appointment and until a successor i s appointed. A member may be reappointed for successive terms.  
 
(c)  If any board member dies, resigns, vacates office or is removed from office, a new member shall be appointed 
to fill the vacancy in the same manner as the member in respect to whom the va cancy occurs was appointed.  
 
(d)  Any board member who fails to attend three (3) consecutive regular meetings of the board shall be treated 
as if he or she had resigned, unless sufficient written justification is submitted to and approved by the appointing  
authority. The administrator shall inform the appointing authority in writing of such board member's failure to attend 
three (3) consecutive regular meetings.  
 
Sec. 202-746. - Officers, quorum, meetings. 
 
(a)..The voting members of the board shall select a chair and a vice -chair. A recording secretary who shall keep 
the official minutes of the meetings, reserve meeting room space, handle all of the communications, including but not 
limited to meeting notices, will be supplied by the Office of Public Health  and Safety (OPHS). All official action of 
the board shall be in writing and be executed by the board upon being authorized by motion passed by the board by 
simple majority of its members present.  
 
(b)  A quorum of the board for official action in session shall be eight (8) of the sixteen (16) voting members. 
Official minutes of meetings shall be kept by the secretary.  
 
(c)  The board shall meet at least every month, or on special call of the chair, or upon written request of any eight 
(8) members.

=== 2021-09-13 minutes, page 89 of 102 ===
September 13, 2021 
 
 93  
Sec. 202-747. - Powers and duties of the board. 
 
The board shall have the following powers and duties:  
 
(1) To create an AIC mission statement consistent with Section 742 of this Chapter;  
(2) To recommend policies and procedures to ensure that the goals identified in the mission statement are 
fulfilled; 
(3) To receive and review monthly reports from the administrator concerning the number of individuals served; 
the length of stay in the AIC; the services offered and received; the reasons why the persons cam e to the 
AIC; the status of programs designed to implement the AIC’s mission statement, fiscal operation and 
budgetary needs; and such other information as the board may from time to time request;  
(4) To receive and review information regarding the status of voluntary referrals by IMPD or other law 
enforcement entities, development of post -arrest referral programs, and progress in developing the AIC as 
an alternative to hospitalization or criminal justice involvement;  
(5) To receive information and provide  input regarding further construction and development of the AIC facility;  
(6) To receive and review information relating to the AIC’s services to members of the community experiencing 
homelessness, and to ensure that the AIC continues to fulfill the missi on statement of the Reuben 
Engagement Center;  
(7) To make recommendations to the director and the council concerning how the services and programs offered 
by the AIC should be modified; and  
(8) To submit to the council, the mayor and the OPHS director annual reports of its activities and operations.  
 
SECTION 5. Sections 279-281 through 279-285 of the “Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County," regarding the 
homeland security division within the metropolitan police department, hereby are deleted in their entirety. 
 
SECTION 6.   A new Chapter 287 of the "Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County," concerning the Metropolitan 
Emergency Services Agency, emergency management board, and emergency management advisory commission, is added, to 
contain the text that appears as follows: 
 
Chapter 287 – METROPOLITAN EMERGENCY SERVICES 
 
DIVISION 1. - METROPOLITAN EMERGENCY SERVICES AGENCY 
 
Sec. 287-101. - Metropolitan Emergency Services Agency 
 
(a) The Metropolitan Emergency Services Agency is created. 
 
(b) A chief shall be appointed by the mayor and confirmed by the emergency services agency board, and shall serve 
at the pleasure of the board. 
 
(c) The agency shall be comprised of three divisions: 
(1) The emergency management division; 
(2) The public safety communications division; and 
(3) The emergency dispatch division, responsible for operating Marion County’s public safety answering 
point (PSAP). 
 
Sec. 287-102. - Emergency Services Agency Board established; appointments and members 
 
(a) There is hereby created the emergency services agency b oard (for purposes of this chapter, the “board”), 
pursuant to IC 36-3-4-23 and IC Chapter 36-8-15.  
 
(b) The board shall be composed of seven (7) members, consisting of:  
(1) The chief of the Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department, or his or her designee; 
(2) The chief of the Indianapolis Fire Department, or his or her designee; 
(3) Two (2) members who currently serve in command or supervisory positions in law enforcement, fire, or 
emergency response agencies in Marion County (other than the Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department, 
Indianapolis Emergency Medical Services, the Indianapolis Fire Department, or the Marion County Sheriff’s 
Office), appointed by the city-county council;  
(4) The sheriff, or his or her designee;  
(5) The chief of Indianapolis Emergency Medical Services, or his or her designee; and 
(6) One (1) member appointed by the Mayor.

=== 2021-09-13 minutes, page 90 of 102 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 94 
(c) Each appointed member shall serve a one-year term and until his or her successor is appointed and qualified, 
but serves at the pleasure of the appointing authority. In the event of a vacancy prior to the expiration of a term of an 
appointed member, the appointing authority shall appoint a member for the remainder of the unexpired term. Ex officio 
members serve on the board for as long as they hold the position that entitles them to board membership. 
 
(d) Four (4) members of the board shall constitute a quorum, and a vote of the majority of members present shall be 
required to pass a resolution or take any official action, other than the confirmati on or removal of the chief. When the 
board is voting to confirm the mayor’s appointment of a chief or to remove the chief, the affirmative vote of at least four 
(4) members shall be required. 
 
(e) The board is a public agency as that term is defined by IC 5-14-1.5-2, and its meetings shall be open, subject to 
the provisions of IC 5-14-1.5. 
 
Sec. 287-103. - Powers and duties of the emergency services agency board 
 
The board shall have the following powers and duties: 
 
(a) To review the Marion County emergency management plan created by the emergency management division 
and determine whether to endorse the plan to the mayor for final approval. 
 
(b) To establish and maintain procedures for emergency management planning. 
 
(c) To review and approve the following: 
(1)  The award and amendment of agency contracts for the purchase or lease of capital equipment or other 
property that are required to be bid under IC Article 5-22; 
(2)  The award and amendment of all agency any  contracts for public construction or public works tha t 
are required to be bid under IC Chapter 36-1-12; 
(3) The disposal of property by the agency as specified in IC 36-1 -11, excluding leases of real property, 
pursuant to IC 36-1 -11, for the siting of cellular, digital personal communications systems, or other 
wireless communications systems towers and related equipment;  and 
(4) All leases, acquisitions, or transfers of real property entered into by the agency.  
This paragraph does not apply to contracts, leases, acquisitions, or transfers of real property pe rtaining to the 
public safety communications system. The board’s powers and duties with respect to the public safety 
communications system are set forth in paragraph (f) below. The agency shall be entitled to forgo the 
requirement of board review of contracts that would otherwise be required under paragraph (c) during a disaster 
emergency declared pursuant to IC 10-14-3-12 or IC 10-14-3-29. 
 
(d) To confirm the mayor’s appointment of the chief and to remove the chief.  
 
(e) With respect to the emergency dispatch system, the board shall have authority: 
(1) To oversee emergency communications and the county public safety answering point (PSAP) pursuant 
to IC 36-3-1-5.1(d)(2). 
(2) To lease, purchase, acquire, upgrade, install or maintain all supplies, equipment, facilities, or real 
property needed for the operations of the emergency dispatch system; 
(3) To authorize the issuance of bonds or other obligations to purchase, or to pay any lease rentals for the 
lease of, all property or facilities needed for the operations of the emergency dispatch system; 
(4) To pledge money in the emergency dispatch fund established pursuant to IC Chapter 36-8 -16.7 for 
the purposes permitted by IC Chapter 36 -8-16.7; 
(5) To exercise the authority formerly exercised by the chief of the Indianapolis Fire Department to 
enter into contracts with town or township firefighting companies or associations related to central 
dispatching programs in accordance with applicable law;  
(6)  To approve interlocal cooperation agreements with other political subdivisions for the financing, 
purchase, acquisition, lease, equipping, upgrade and installation of the emergency dispatch system and 
public safety answering point for public safety agencies of political subdivisions that are not subject to  
budget review by the city- county council;  
(7) To exercise such other powers and perform such other duties as are consistent with IC Article 36-8 
with respect to the implementation, financing, operation and maintenance of an emergency dispatch 
system and public safety answering point, except as such powers and duties may be delegated by statute 
to other officers or agencies; and  
(8) To ensure that the PSAP meets national accreditation standards

=== 2021-09-13 minutes, page 91 of 102 ===
September 13, 2021 
 
 95  
(f) With respect to the public safety communications system, and computer facilities, the board shall serve as the 
governing body of the Indianapolis -Marion County public safety communications system and computer 
facilities district pursuant to IC 36-8-15-9, including the following powers and duties:  
(1) To finance, purchase, acquire, lease, erect, install, construct, equip, upgrade, operate, and maintain 
public safety communications and computer facilities for the public safety agencies that are subject 
to budget review by the city-county council, in accordance with the procedures set forth in IC 
Chapter 36-8-15. 
(2) To sue, be sued, plead, and be impleaded. 
(3) To condemn, appropriate, lease, rent, purchase, and hold any real or personal property needed or 
considered useful in connection with facilities for the district’s purposes, in accordance with the 
procedures set forth in IC Chapter 36-8-15. 
(4) To acquire real or personal property by gift, devise, or bequest, and hold, use, or dispose of that 
property for purposes authorized by IC Chapter 36-8-15. 
(5) To design, order, contract for, construct, and equip any facilities for the district’s purposes, in 
accordance with the procedures set forth in IC Chapter 36-8-15. 
(6) To employ architects, engineers, attorneys, auditors, clerks, construction managers, and other 
employees necessary for the financing, erection, and equipping of facilities for the district’s 
purposes. 
(7) In accordance with IC 36-8-15-15 and subject to the limitations imposed by IC 36-8-15-16 and all 
other limitations and conditions under state law, to issue bonds in the name of the consolidated city. 
However, no bond to finance the purchase or lease of public safety communications system or 
computer facilities equipment shall be valid unless the city-county council has first approved such 
bond. 
(8) To make and enter into all contracts and agreements necessary or incidental to accomplishing the 
purposes of the district, in accordance with the procedures set forth in IC Chapter 36-8-15. 
(9) To review and approve requests by a public safety or public service agency of a political subdivision 
located within Marion County for access to the public safety communications system, including 
provision of equipment, services, or supplies. Any such requesting agency shall be entitled to receive 
such equipment, services, or supplies at a cost to the requesting agency no greater than the cost 
charged to provide said equipment, services, or supplies to a public safety agency that is subject to 
budget review by the city-county council. However, the board shall be entitled to determine, based 
on the input of the requesting agency and the recommendation of the public safety communications 
division, the appropriate quantity of such equipment, services, or supplies to be provided on this 
cost-parity basis, based on the reasonable needs of the requesting agency. Provision of equipment, 
services, or supplies to any such requesting agency in any quantity above that determined by the 
board will be subject to the rate set by the commission. 
(10) To approve interlocal cooperation agreements with other political subdivisions for the financing, 
purchase, acquisition, lease, construction, equipping, erection, upgrade and installation of public 
safety communications and computer facilities for public safety and public service agencies of 
political subdivisions that are not subject to budget review by the city-county council. 
(11) To coordinate all activities necessary to ensure compatibility of all public safety communications 
and computer systems within the public safety communications and computer facilities district 
established under IC 36-8-15-7.  
(12) To exercise such other powers and perform such other duties as are granted to the city and the 
county under IC Chapter 36-8-15 with respect to the implementation, financing, operation and 
maintenance of the public safety communications system and computer facilities; provided, 
however, no power or duty herein prescribed shall in any way be permitted to derogate the powers, 
duties or responsibilities of any elected officials.  
 
Sec. 287-104. - Marion County Emergency Managemen t Advisory Commission established; appointments and 
members 
 
(a) The Marion County emergency management advisory commission (for purposes of this Chapter, the 
“commission”) hereby is established pursuant to IC 10- 14-3-17 and shall serve as the county emergency management 
advisory council for Marion County pursuant to the statute. The commission shall also perform the functions formerly 
performed by the emergency communications advisory commission. 
 
(b) The commission shall consist of the following members:  
(1) The mayor or the mayor’s designee;  
(2) The president of the city-county council or his or her designee;  
(3) The chief of the Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department or his or her designee; 
(4) The chief of the Indianapolis Fire Department or his or her designee;

=== 2021-09-13 minutes, page 92 of 102 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 96 
(5) The mayors of Lawrence, Beech Grove, and Southport or their designees, and the president of the 
town council of Speedway or his or her designee;  
(6) A member of a township fire department, who shall be elected by majority vote at a meeting of elected 
township trustees; and  
(7) A member of an exclu ded city law enforcement agency  and a member of an excluded city fire 
department agency, who shall be appointed by majority vote at a meeting of the mayors of Lawrence, 
Beech Grove and Southport and the president of the town council of the Town of Speedway;  
(8) A member of a school corporation or institution of higher education public safety's law enforcement 
or emergency management system appointed by the city-county council president;  
(9) A member designated by the commander of Indiana Group V of the Indiana Wing Civil Air Patrol; 
(10) A member of a legislative body of an excluded city or included town, designated by the president of 
the city-county council in consultation with the legislative bodies of the excluded cities and included 
towns; 
(11)  The sheriff or his or her designee;  
(12)  The chief of Indianapolis Emergency Medical Services (IEMS), or his or her designee; 
(13)  The director of the Marion County Public Health Department, or his or her designee; and 
(14) The chief of the emergency services agency, or his or her designee. 
  
(c)  All commission members shall serve one-year terms and may be appointed for successive terms. A member 
shall serve until his or her successor is appointed and qualified.   
 
(d) The chief of the emergency services agency or the chief’s designee shall serve as the chairperson of the 
commission.  
 
(e) The commission shall meet at least six (6) times each calendar year or at such times as necessary and upon the 
call of the chairperson. The commission is a public agency as that term is defined by IC 5-14-1.5-2, and its meetings shall 
be open, subject to the provisions of IC 5-14-1.5. Six (6) members of the commission constitutes a quorum for a meeting. 
The affirmative vote of a majority of members present shall be required for the commission to pass any resolution or take 
any other official action. 
 
Sec. 287-105. - Duties and powers of the commission. 
 
(a) The commission shall exercise general supervision and control over the emergency management division of 
the emergency services agency, and shall provide input to the director of the public safety communications division 
regarding the public safety communications system and to the director of the emergency dispatch division regarding the 
911 emergency dispatch system.  
 
(b) The commission shall confirm the chief’s appointment of the director of the emergency management division.  
 
(c) The commission shall hear all rate cases for services provided by the division of public safety communications 
to be established for customers and forward recommendations to the city-county council for final approval.  
 
(d) The fee per unit of equipment for those authorized by the c ommission and approved by the chief of the 
emergency services agency shall be approved in accordance with this chapter.  
 
(e) The commission will hear all requests for access to the public safety communications systems, with the 
exception of those pertaining to public safety and public service agencies of political subdivisions within Marion County 
as defined in section 287-103(f)(9), and will make a recommendation for approval to the division director of public safety 
communications.   
 
(f) The commission may recommend a lower use fee structure for equipment on the system for consideration in 
the sharing of another user's infrastructure, capital equipment and/or services to be rendered through an interlocal 
agreement to be executed by the chief of the emergency services agency. 
 
Sec. 287-106. - Chief; Qualifications; Duties and powers. 
 
(a) The chief shall have the following duties and powers: 
 
(a) (1) To oversee the daily operation of the agency. 
(b) (2) To oversee, supervise and coordinate the activities and operations of the divisions within the agency.

=== 2021-09-13 minutes, page 93 of 102 ===
September 13, 2021 
 
 97  
(c) (3) To appoint directors of the agency’s divisions. The chief’s appointment of the director of the emergency 
management division shall be subject to confirmation by the commission. The chief shall supervise the 
directors, who serve at the pleasure of the chief.  
(d) (4) To negotiate and execute contracts on behalf of the agency, subject to the approval authority of the board 
where applicable. 
(e) (5) To initiate, prepare, submit and administer the agency’s budget in accordance with applicable law. 
(f) (6) To appoint, receive, suspend, discipline and transfer members of the agency pursuant to applicable rules, 
regulations and statutes.   
(g) (7) To exercise any powers that may be granted by law, by the mayor, or by the city-county council. 
(b) To be eligible for appointment by the mayor and confirmation by the board as chief, a person must have at least one 
of the following minimum qualifications: 
(1) At least fifteen (15) years of service, including command or supervisory experience, with a federal, state, 
or municipal (with a population at least 100,000) law enforcement agency, emergency medical services 
agency, or fire department; or  
(2) A four-year degree from an accredited institution of higher learning in public administration, emergency 
management, homeland security, or a related academic field. 
 
DIVISION 2. - EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT DIVISION 
 
Sec. 287-201. - Emergency Management; Purpose.  
 
Because of the substantial natural, technological, human- caused and national security hazards faced by the city 
and because of the need to establish a continuing program for preventing, preparing for, responding to and recovering 
from emergencies in an orderly way, this article sets forth a mechanism for emergency management planning. It is 
intended to supplement the Emergency Management and Disaster Law (IC 10-14 -3-1 et seq.).  
 
Sec. 287-202. - Definitions. 
 
As used in this article, the following terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section.  
 
Coordination means the establishment of effective communications linkages and other actions, both of a routine 
and emergency nature, necessary for the orderly development of the county emergency management plan a nd for the 
response to and the recovery from emergencies.  
 
Emergency means occurrence or imminent threat of loss of life, illness or injury, damage to public property, 
private property or the environment resulting from any technological, human- caused, natu ral or national security 
hazard including, but not limited to, floods, earthquakes, severe wind, fires, storms, tornadoes, mass transportation 
accidents, releases of hazardous materials and substances, oil spills, explosions, droughts, riots, structural fa ilure, 
public extortion, hostage taking, strikes by essential workers, attack, military action, infestations, epidemic, fuel or 
resource shortages.  
 
Emergency management  means all measures associated with the prevention and mitigation of the effects of maj or 
emergencies, development of plans and preparedness for emergencies, response to the acute effects of emergencies, 
preparation for and management of major events, and recovery from emergencies of all kinds.  
 
Local disaster emergency  means a major emergen cy that has resulted in a formal declaration of local state of 
emergency by the mayor.  
 
Major emergency  means an emergency or threat of emergency that causes loss of life, injury, illness or damage 
to public or private property or the environment to a degr ee greater than that which occurs on a regular basis in the 
county. 
 
Human-caused hazards  means threats attributable to intentional disruptive actions by humans, including such 
episodes as riots, public extortion or strikes by essential workers.  
 
Mitigation means the prevention or the lessening of effects of emergencies when and where possible including 
the adoption of appropriate ordinances and regulations.  
 
National security hazards  means and includes threats attributable to acts or threat of act s by another government, 
including such episodes as accidental launch of a nuclear or conventional bomb, limited nuclear or conventional

=== 2021-09-13 minutes, page 94 of 102 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 98 
warfare, general nuclear or conventional warfare, or any peacetime emergency that poses a serious threat to the 
national security. 
 
Natural hazards  mean threats attributable to forces of nature, including such episodes as floods, earthquakes, 
tornadoes or epidemics.  
 
Preparedness  means all of the measures taken preparatory to emergency response and recovery actions includi ng, 
but not limited to, the preparation and distribution of emergency management plans, training programs for citizens 
and emergency forces workers, and emergency information, warning and communications systems.  
 
Recovery means all actions necessary to res tore life, limb, property and environment to a condition as nearly like 
that which prevailed prior to an emergency as possible.  
 
Response means all of the actions necessary to effectively respond to acute need for protection of life, limb, 
public property,  private property and the environment during an emergency.  
 
Technological hazards  mean serious threats attributable to inventions or products of humankind, including such 
episodes as structural failures, mass transportation accidents, releases of hazardous  materials, fires in multiple 
occupancy buildings.  
 
Sec. 287-203. - Created; duties and powers. 
 
The emergency management division shall:  
 
(a) Coordinate and direct the development of a county emergency management plan, for approval by the chief 
and presentation to the emergency  services agency board, that shall involve all sectors of government and 
the private sector, shall address all threats or emergencies from all hazards, including natural, technological, 
man-caused and national security hazards,  and shall include mitigation, preparedness, response and recovery 
activities; 
 
(b)  Prepare, disseminate and maintain in current status a county emergency management plan that addresses in 
detail the response to and recovery from major emergencies occurri ng in Marion County, and that, upon 
approval by the emergency services agency board and the mayor,  shall be the sole emergency management 
plan for the county and shall be filed in the office of the Marion County Clerk; no police or private 
organizations s hall develop emergency operating or disaster plans or procedures that are in conflict with the 
county emergency management plan except where specifically authorized by ordinance, statute or federal 
law or regulation;  
 
(c)  Designate and manage an emergency  operations center to which senior government officials and chief 
coordinators designated in the county emergency management plan may respond to formulate and 
disseminate decisions regarding the management of a major emergency; homeland security may also 
designate such auxiliary emergency operations centers as may be necessary;  
 
(d) Coordinate the development and execution of tests, drills and exercises of the county emergency management 
plan or any of its parts;  
 
(e) Be responsible for monitoring hazardous  conditions of any kind in the county, making recommendations to 
the mayor and director of public health and safety concerning emergency measures and activating the county 
emergency management plan after the declaration of a local disaster emergency by the  mayor and for 
coordinating response and recovery operations associated with a major emergency;  
 
(f)  Serve as the county emergency management organization for Marion County for the purposes of IC Chapter 
10-14-3 and fulfill all duties and responsibilities  placed on the county emergency management organization 
by statute; and  
 
(g)  Be authorized to seek and apply for grants, contracts and other sources of funding necessary or in support of 
its duties from the federal government, state government and nongove rnmental public and private sources.  
 
(h)  Ensure compliance with the restrictions on political activities and affiliations set forth in IC 10 - 
14-3-26 and IC 10 -14-3-27, to the extent applicable to the division and its personnel.

=== 2021-09-13 minutes, page 95 of 102 ===
September 13, 2021 
 
 99  
Nothing in this Chapter shall be construed to affect the emergency powers granted to the Mayor under Section 201-5 
of the Code and under applicable state law.  
 
Sec. 287-204. - Director; Qualifications; Duties and powers. 
 
(a) A director shall oversee and manage the operations and functions of the division of emergency management. 
The chief of the emergency services agency shall appoint the director, for confirmation by the commission. Prior 
to submitting a director appointment to the commission for confirmation, the chief shall obtain the approval of 
the mayor. Once appointed and confirmed, the director shall serve at the pleasure of the chief.  
 
(b) To be eligible for appointment by the chief and confirmation by the commission as director, a person must 
possess at lea st one of the following minimum qualifications:  
(1) At least ten (10) years of service, including command or supervisory experience, with a federal, state, 
or municipal (with a population at least 100,000) law enforcement agency, emergency medical services 
agency, or fire department; or  
(2) A four -year degree from an accredited institution of higher learning in public administration, 
emergency management, homeland security, or a related academic field. 
 
(c) The division director shall manage the division, its personnel, activities and operations to fulfill its duties required 
by law, and shall ensure that the division fulfills the duties and powers granted to it under Section 287-203 above.  
 
(d) The division director shall fulfill all other duties and responsibili ties placed on the Marion County emergency 
management and disaster director by IC 10 -14-3-17. 
 
Sec. 287-205. - Emergency communications and warning. 
 
(a) The emergency management division shall coordinate the development of an emergency communications and 
warning system that will allow for the dissemination of warning to potential responders and the general 
public, to effectuate the notification of appr opriate response agencies and individuals and to distribute and 
receive information to and from potential emergency responders and the general public regarding an 
emergency condition.  
 
(b) The emergency management division shall develop and maintain an int egrated system for warning the public, 
which may include the deployment of public warning sirens, the development of voice radio systems, 
coordination of the mobilization of cable television systems, coordination of the county's participation in 
the emergency broadcast system, and any other appropriate systems that may become available.  
 
(c) The emergency management division’s exercise of responsibilities with respect to emergency 
communications is conditioned on the execution of an interlocal agreement with the Sheriff to the extent 
that it implicates “emergency communications” functions reserved to the Sheriff under IC 36 -3-1-5.1. 
 
DIVISION 3. - PUBLIC SAFETY COMMUNICATIONS DIVISION 
 
Sec. 287-301. - Purpose and authority. 
 
(a) With respect to public safety com munications, pursuant to IC 36-8 -15-7, a public safety communications 
systems and computer facilities district is created in the county as a special taxing district of the consolidated city. The 
territory of the district includes the entire county. The purpose of the district is as stated in IC 36-8-15-8.  
 
(b) As used in this chapter, public safety communications system has the same definition as in IC 36 -8-15-3, and 
computer facilities means computer hardware and computer software, and all related equipment, apparatus, devices and 
instrumentalities necessary for the proper operation of the public safety communications system within the public safety 
communications and computer facilities district established under IC 36-8-15-7.  
 
(c) The division of public safety communications shall be responsible for operating public safety communications 
system and computer facilities, as defined by IC 36 -8-15, for all participating public safety and public service agencies 
of political subdivisions in the district.  
 
Sec. 287-302. - Director of public safety communications division; duties. 
 
(a) The chief of the emergency services agency shall appoint a division director, who shall possess qualifications 
necessary to perform the duties required. The director shall serve at the pleasure of the chief.

=== 2021-09-13 minutes, page 96 of 102 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 100 
 
(b) The division director  shall manage the division, its personnel, activities and operations to fulfill its duties 
required by law; receive and review with comment and recommendation all reports, requests and documents on public 
safety communications operations in the county; and coordinate with participating governments and agencies all activities 
necessary to ensure compatibility of the public safety communications systems and computer facilities.  
 
(c) With respect to public safety communications, the division director shall be  responsible for financing, 
purchasing, contracting for, acquiring, leasing, constructing, equipping, erecting, upgrading, and installing a public safety 
communications system and computer facilities for the district established under IC 36-8-15-7, including all participating 
public safety and public service agencies of political subdivisions within Marion County, subject to the powers of the 
emergency services agency board as outlined in this chapter. 
 
DIVISION 4. - EMERGENCY DISPATCH DIVISION 
 
Sec. 287-401. - Purpose and Authority. 
 
(a) The emergency dispatch division shall administer and operate the county’s “911” emergency dispatch system, 
fulfilling the functions of a public safety answering point (PSAP) as defined by Indiana Code Chapter 36-8-16.7 and 36-
3-1-5.1. 
 
(b) The division shall assume the responsibilities formerly discharged by the Sheriff and the Indianapolis Fire Department 
with respect to emergency dispatch. The emergency services agency shall enter into agreements with the Sheriff and the 
Indianapolis Fire Department to effectuate the transition of employment to the division for personnel currently employed 
in the emergency dispatch system. 
 
(c) The emergency dispatch division’s exercise of these duties and responsibilities formerly exe rcised by the 
Sheriff is conditioned on the execution of an interlocal agreement with the Sheriff to the extent that it implicates 
the “emergency communications” functions reserved to the Sheriff under IC 36 -3-1-5.1. 
 
Sec. 287-402. - Director of emergency dispatch division; duties. 
 
(a) The chief of the emergency services agency shall appoint a division director, who shall possess  
qualifications necessary to perform the duties required. The director shall serve at the pleasure of the chief.  
 
(b) The division director shall manage the division, its personnel, activities and operations to fulfill its duties 
required by law; receive and review with comment and recommendation all reports, requests and documents on 911 
emergency dispatch operations in the county; and coordinate with participating governments and agencies all 
activities necessary ensure the efficient functioning of the emergency dispatch system.  
 
(c) With respect to 911 emergency dispatch, the division director shall be responsible, subject to the approval 
authority of the emergency services agency board as provided in this chapter, for all purchasing, financing, 
contracting for, acquiring, leasing, constructing, equipping, upgrading, and maintenance activities necessary for the 
operation of the system. Funds from the statewide 911 fund shall, as directed by the emergency services agency 
board, be employed for this purpose.  
 
(d)  The director shall have the authority to negotiate and enter into contracts with a service supplier for the 
provision of services related to 911 emergency dispatch. 
 
(e) The director shall oversee the administration and direction of all agreements and operation of the applications 
and equipment associated with the Criminal Justice Information Services (CJIS) of the Federal Bureau of 
Investigation and the Indiana Data and Communications System (IDACS) of the Indiana State Police. 
 
SECTION 7.   A new Article IV, concerning Indianapolis Emergency Medical Services, is added to Chapter 252 of the 
"Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County," to contain the text that appears as follows: 
 
ARTICLE IV. – INDIANAPOLIS EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES 
 
Sec. 252-401. - Definition; purpose. 
 
(a) As used in this article, IEMS means the Indianapolis Emergency Medical Services Division.

=== 2021-09-13 minutes, page 97 of 102 ===
September 13, 2021 
 
 101  
(b) Subject to an interlocal agreement, IEMS shall be responsible for providing transport emergency medical 
services pursuant to IC 36 -3-1-6.2 throughout the fire special service district as defined in section 111 -3 of this Code, 
and in those areas in which the Indianapolis fire department has contracted to provide transport emergency medical 
services.  
 
Sec. 252-402. - Chief; qualifications and appointment. 
 
(a) IEMS shall be administered by a chief who is approved by both the Health and Hospital Corporation of Marion 
County and the mayor.  
 
(b) The IEMS chief will be appointed for a term of four (4) years, renewable without limitation. The IEMS chief 
may be removed, with or without cause, upon the agreement of the Health and Hospital Corporation of Marion County 
and the mayor.  
 
Sec. 252-403. - Chief; responsibilities generally. 
 
The Health and Hospital Corporation of Marion County acting through the IEMS Chief shall have full 
administrative responsibility for IEMS including operations, patient care, quality and performance improvement, 
continuing education, personnel and budget recommendations to the IEMS steering committee.  
 
Sec. 252-404. Steering committee. 
 
(a) The IEMS steering committee is established and shall be comprised of four (4) members as follows:  
 
(1) Two (2) members shall be selected by the mayor, in consultation w ith the chief of the Indianapolis Fire 
Department; and  
(2) Two (2) members shall be selected by the chief executive of the Health and Hospital Corporation of 
Marion County.  
 
(b) Steering committee members shall serve at the pleasure of the appointing authority, and without compensation. 
The steering committee annually shall select one of its members to act as chairperson, and shall meet upon the 
call of the chairperson as frequently as needed.  
 
(c) The steering committee will provide oversight and direction to IEMS. The steering committee’s powers and 
responsibilities shall be delineated in an interlocal agreement between the City and the Health and Hospital 
Corporation.  
 
Sec. 252-405. Automated external defibrillators. 
 
(a) Definitions. For purposes of this section, the following terms shall have the following meanings:  
 
Automated external defibrillator (or "AED") means a medical device, approved by the United States food and drug 
administration, that:  
(1) Is capable of recognizing the presence or absence in a patient of ventricular fibrillation and rapid ventricular 
tachycardia;  
(2) Is capable of determining, without intervention by an individual, whether defibrillation should be performed 
on a patient;  
(3) Upon determining that defibrillation should be performed, automatically charges and requests delivery of 
an electrical impulse to a patient's heart; and  
(4) Upon action by an individual, delivers an appropriate electrical impulse to a patient's heart to perform 
defibrillation.  
 
Owner or operator means the owner, manager, operator, or other person or persons having control of a public 
place.  
 
Public place means the publicly accessible areas of the following places to which the public is invited or permitted:  
(1) Public buildings maintained by any office, department or agency of the Consolidated City of Indianapolis 
and Marion County;  
(2) All parks under the jurisdiction of the department of parks and recreation that have facilities where an AED 
can be secured with access by staff; and  
(3) All sports and recreational facilities under the jurisdiction of the department of parks and recreation that 
have facilities where an AED can be secured with access by staff.

=== 2021-09-13 minutes, page 98 of 102 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 102 
 
(b) An owner or operator of a public place shall do the following in order to meet this code's AED requirements 
for public places:  
 
(1) Ensure that an AED is located on the premises and is easily accessible to staff and emergency response 
teams;  
(2) Employ at least one individual who has satisfactorily c ompleted a course consistent with the most current 
national guidelines for, and is currently certified in, cardiopulmonary resuscitation and AED use;  
(3) Post a sign at each public entrance that indicates the location of the AED;  
(4) Ensure compliance with the requirements of IC 16-31-6.5; and  
(5) Notify IEMS of the location of the AED.  
 
(c) A person is immune from civil liability for acts or omissions involving the use or failure to use an AED located 
on the premises of a public place as provided under IC 34-30-12-1.  
 
SECTION 8.  Section 135-521 of the "Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County," regarding the Public Safety 
Communications General Fund, hereby is amended by the deletion of the language that is stricken and the addition of the 
language that is underscored, to read as follows: 
 
Sec. 135-521. - Public Safety Communications General Fund. 
 
(a) There is hereby created a special nonreverting  fund to be designated as the "Public Safety Communications 
General Fund". With the exception of the revenues derived from the levy of taxes imposed under the authority of IC 
36-8-15-19, the auditor shall deposit into such fund all moneys received by or cr edited to the office of public health 
and safety  Metropolitan Emergency Services Agency, public safety communications division,  in the performance of 
its functions and duties with respect to public safety communications,  and other moneys duly appropriated during 
each year, as approved by the city -county council, and as provided by law.  
 
(b) This fund shall be a continuing, nonreverting fund, with all balances remaining therein at the end of the 
year, and such balances shall not lapse into the county general  fund or be diverted directly or indirectly in any manner 
other than set forth in subsection (c).  
 
(c) Moneys in the Public Safety Communications General  Fund may be used for expenses incurred in carrying 
out the functions and duties of the Metropolitan Em ergency Services Agency, public safety communications division  
office of public health and safety in the performance of its functions and duties with respect to public safety 
communications.  
 
(d) Amounts shall be paid from this fund only pursuant to appropriations authorized by the city- county council 
in the normal budgeting processes.  
 
SECTION 9. Section 135 -531 of the "Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County," regarding the Emergency 
Telephone System Fund, hereby is amended by the deletion of the language that is stricken and the addition of the language 
that is underscored, to read as follows: 
 
Sec. 135-531. - 911 Emergency Telephone System Dispatch Funds. 
 
(a) There is hereby created a special, nonreverting  fund to be designated as the " 911 Emergency Telephone 
System Dispatch Fund". The treasurer shall deposit into such fund all distributions received by or credited to the 
Metropolitan Sheriff’s Department Emergency Services Agency, public safety communications division and/or 
emergency dispatch division  from the statewide 911  fund pursuant to IC 36-8-16.5-18 Chapter 36-8-16.7.  
 
(b) This fund shall be a continuing, nonreverting fund, with all balances remaining therein at the end of the 
year, and such balances shall not lapse into the county general fund or be diverted directl y or indirectly in any manner 
other than that set forth in subsection (c).  
 
(c) The county treasurer may invest money in this fund in the same manner that other money of the county may 
be invested, but all income earned from the investment must be deposite d into this fund.  
 
(d) Moneys in the 911 Emergency Dispatch Fund shall be used only for purposes  allowed by consistent with IC 
36-8-16.5-41 Article 36-8. 
 
(e) Amounts shall be paid from this fund only pursuant to appropriations authorized by the city -county council.

=== 2021-09-13 minutes, page 99 of 102 ===
September 13, 2021 
 
 103  
 
SECTION 10. Section 281 -614 of the “Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County,” regarding the Sheriff’s 
responsibilities with respect to the enhanced emergency telephone system and public safety answering point, is hereby deleted 
in its entirety. 
 
SECTION 11. Sections 202-761 through 202-767 of the “Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County,” regarding the 
office of public health and safety’s division of community nutrition and food policy, hereby are amended by the deletion of 
the language that is stricken and the addition of the language that is underscored, to read as follows: 
 
DIVISION 6. DIVISION OF COMMUNITY NUTRITION AND FOOD POLICY 
Sec. 202-761. Purpose. 
The division of community nutrition and food policy shall be responsible for addressing racial inequity in the 
food system, creating an inclusive mechanism to launch and coordinate food policies and programs, reducing food 
insecurity in Indianapolis, and improving equitable access to healthy food in Indianapolis, with a focus on supporting 
the local food economy and food infrastructure of food desert and low access areas.  
Sec. 202-762. Administrator; duties. 
(a) The director of the office of public health and safety shall appoint an administrator for the division of community 
nutrition and food policy.  
(b) The administrator shall manage the division, shall serve as the principal advisor to the mayor's office on matters 
related to food insecurity, food access, food procurement and food equity, and shall coordinate city-county 
government and government facility policies, programs and initiatives on matters related to food insecurity, food 
access, food procurement and food equity.  
Sec. 202-763. Indianapolis Community Food Access Coalition. 
(a) The Indianapolis Community Food Access Coalition ("coalition") is hereby recognized as an independent, 
community-driven body comprised of diverse residents, constituents, business owners, farmers, educators, 
community organizations and other stakeholders who share a common goal of improving the Indianapolis food 
system. whose purpose is to promote policies relating to food equity and healthy food access across all levels of 
city and county government; to provide independent, community-based advice to policy-makers, local 
organizations, and funders regarding major food initiatives and community investments; to conduct regular 
assessments and analyses of the Indianapolis food system and communicate findings; and to serve as a forum to 
empower stakeholders and community members.  
(b) The administrator of the division of community nutrition and food policy shall serve as the chief liaison between 
the coalition and the city-county government. The administrator may act as a member of the coalition or of its 
executive committee but shall receive no compensation for such roles.  
(c) The coalition shall be independent of the City of Indianapolis, with its own by-laws, charter, and other 
organizing documents, and shall raise, receive, and spend funds independently of, and without direct control by, 
the city and the office of public health and safety.  
(d) The coalition shall recommend to the mayor four (4) individuals for appointment appoint three members of its 
executive committee to sit on the Indianapolis Community Food Access Advisory Commission, as provided in 
section 202-7655(a)(6) below.  
(e) The city-county council shall allocate funding annually, to be appropriated to the office of public health and 
safety, division of community nutrition and food policy, for the support of the food equity mission and activities 
of the coalition. The division of community nutrition and food policy shall coordinate with the coalition as 
appropriate in initiatives related to healthy food access and food equity.  
Sec. 202-764. Indianapolis Community Food Access Advisory Commission. 
The Indianapolis Community Food Access Advisory Commission ("commission") is hereby established. The 
commission shall to evaluate and advance citywide food policy and food access initiatives and provide advice to the 
city-county council on matters related to food equity and healthy food access.

=== 2021-09-13 minutes, page 100 of 102 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 104 
The commission shall use an inclusive and transparent process to promote policies relating to food equity and 
healthy food access across all levels of city and county government; shall provide independent, community-based 
advice to policy-makers, local organizations, and funders regarding major food initiatives and community investments; 
shall conduct regular assessments and analyses of the Indianapolis food system and communicate findings; and shall 
serve as a forum to empower stakeholders and community members.  
Sec. 202-765. Commission membership. 
(a) The commission shall be composed of thirteen (13) voting members who are chosen as follows:  
(1) The administrator of the division of community nutrition and food policy as a permanent member, who 
will serve as a co-chair;  
(2) A member of the coalition executive committee, appointed by the mayor based on the recommendation of 
the coalition, who will serve as a co-chair;  
(23) A business owner or employee of an organization that promotes economic development in the city, to be 
appointed by the mayor;  
(34) A member with professional experience in transit, housing or public safety, to be appointed by the mayor;  
(45) Three (3) members with professional experience serving Marion County community organizations 
involved in food equity, food access, or food insecurity issues, consisting of one (1) public health 
administrator to be appointed by the Marion County Public Health Department and two (2) members to be 
appointed by the city-county council;  
(56) Three (3) Marion County residents who are farmers or food entrepreneurs, consisting of one member 
designated by Purdue Extension – Marion County and two (2) members to be appointed by the city-county 
council, of whom at least one member will be age 25 or youngerincluding at least one individual under the 
age of 25, to be appointed by the city-county council; and  
(67) Four (4) Three (3) members of the community to be appointed by the mayor based on the 
recommendation of the coalition, one of whom will be selected by the commission to serve as the other 
co-chair.  
(b) All non-permanent members shall serve at the pleasure of the appointing authority and serve three-year terms. 
Members may be appointed for up to two (2) successive terms, with the possibility for reappointment after at 
least one intervening term of non-service. A member and shall serve until his or her successor is appointed or 
qualified.  
(c) In the event of a vacancy prior to the expiration of a term, the appointing authority shall appoint a member for 
the remainder of the unexpired term.  
Sec. 202-766. Commission officers, quorum, meetings. 
(a) The administrator of community nutrition and food policy and the community appointee coalition executive 
committee appointee selected by the commission for the role shall serve as the co-chairs of the commission. A 
recording secretary who shall keep the official minutes of the meetings, reserve meeting room space, handle all 
communications, including but not limited to meeting notices, will be supplied by the office of public health and 
safety.  
(b) Seven (7) Six (6) members of the commission shall constitute a quorum.  
(c) The commission shall meet at least quarterly, and as often as necessary to carry out its duties.  
Sec. 202-767. Duties of the commission. 
The commission shall have the following duties:  
(a) Identify community needs and goals related to healthy food access, food equity, and the food economy 
with priority given to low income and food desert areas.  
(b) Establish opportunities to connect retail and for-profit food operations with funding resources to include 
community development grants, healthy food financing and other economic development opportunities.

=== 2021-09-13 minutes, page 101 of 102 ===
September 13, 2021 
 
 105  
(c) Receive information from city-county agencies on the food equity impact of each agency's work, and 
make recommendations to the city-county council concerning more effective coordination of city-county 
food-related functions by the division of community nutrition and food policy.  
(d) Regularly collect data to assess existing food policies and recommend new policies that address food 
access and food inequity issues in the city.  
(e) No later than July 1 of each year, offer recommendations to the office of public health and safety and the 
city-county council concerning the budget priorities of the division of community nutrition and food 
policy for the coming year.  
(f) Provide oversight and guidance to the Indianapolis Community Food Access Coalition.  
(g) Set rules for its governance and establish its procedures for conducting public meetings as permitted or 
required by law.  
(h) Submit an annual report of its activities and recommendations to the city-county council.  
The commission shall carry out its duties in this subsection in accordance with the purposes set forth in section 
202-7561.  
 
SECTION 12. This ordinance shall be in full force and effect upon adoption and compliance with IC 36-3-4- 14. 
 
ANNOUNCEMENTS AND ADJOURNMENT 
 
The President said that the docketed agenda for this meeting of the Council having been completed, 
the Chair would entertain motions for adjournment. 
 
Councillor Mowery stated that he had been asked to offer the following motion for adjournment 
by: 
 
 (1) Councillor Jones in memory of Dixie McRoy; and 
 (2) Councillor Adamson in memory of Frankie Casel and Trent Garrett; and 
 (3) Councillor Larrison in memory of Gregory A. Clayton; and 
 (4) Councillor Carlino in memory of Bob Jenkins; and 
 (5) Councillors Carlino and McCormick in memory of Benjamin Melvin; and 
 (6) Councillor Osili in memory of Joseph Trotter, Marshall Johnson, Jerry Harkness and Lula 
Gillispie. 
 
Councillor Mowery moved the adjournment of this meeting of the  Indianapolis City- County 
Council in recognition of and respect for the life and contributions of Dixie McRoy, Frankie Casel, 
Trent Garrett , Gregory A. Clayton , Bob Jenkins , Benjamin Melvin , Joseph Trotter, Marshall 
Johnson, Jerry Harkness  and Lula Gillisp ie.  He respectfully asked the support of fellow 
Councillors.  He further requested that the motion be made a part of the permanent records of this 
body and that a letter bearing the Council seal and the signature of the President be sent to the 
families advising of this action. 
There being no further business, and upon motion duly made and seconded, the meeting adjourned 
at 9:10 p.m. 
We hereby certify that the above and foregoing is a full, true and complete record of the proceedings 
of the regular concurr ent meetings of the City -Council of Indianapolis -Marion County, Indiana, 
and Indianapolis Police, Fire and Solid Waste Collection Special Service District Councils on the 
13th day of September, 2021.

=== 2021-09-13 minutes, page 102 of 102 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 106 
In Witness Whereof, we have hereunto subscribed our signatures and caused the Seal of the Cit y 
of Indianapolis to be affixed. 
 
 
 President 
ATTEST: 
 
(SEAL)
