=== 2022-08-08 minutes, page 1 of 35 ===
5 
MINUTES OF THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL 
AND 
SPECIAL SERVICE DISTRICT COUNCILS 
OF 
INDIANAPOLIS, MARION COUNTY, INDIANA 
MONDAY, AUGUST 8, 2022 
 
The City -County Council of Indianapolis, Marion County, Indiana and the Indianapolis Police 
Special Service District Council, Indianapolis Fire Special Service District Council and 
Indianapolis Solid Waste Collection Special Service District Council convened in regular 
concurrent sessions, in the Council Chamber of the City-County Building at 7:10 p.m. on Monday, 
August 8, 2022 with Councillor Osili presiding. 
 
Councillor Potts led the opening prayer and then invited all present to join him in the Pledge of 
Allegiance to the Flag.   
 
ROLL CALL 
 
The President instructed the Clerk to take the roll call and requested members to register their 
presence on the voting machine.  The roll call was as follows: 
 
25 PRESENT: Adamson, Annee, Bain, Barth, Boots, Brown, Carlino, Dilk, Evans -E, Evans-J, 
Graves, Gray, Hart, Jackson, Jones, Larrison, Lewis, Mascari, McCormick, Mowery, Oliver, 
Osili, Potts, Ray, Robinson 
0 ABSENT:  
 
A quorum of twenty-five members being present, the President called the meeting to order. 
 
OFFICIAL COMMUNICATIONS 
 
General Counsel Toae Kim announced for those in attendance wanting to testify regarding a 
rezoning located at 1212 C astania Drive, the procedure for the Council does not allow public 
testimony at this meeting regarding rezoning ordinances certified to this body by the Metropolitan 
Development Commission. 
 
The President recognized the Honorable Joseph H. Hogsett, Mayor, who made the following 
remarks regarding the 2023 City and County Budget: 
 
Good evening, President Osili, Vice President Adamson, Majority Leader Lewis, Minority Leader Mowery, and all 
Councillors, City employees and members of the public: 
 
For two and half years, Indianapolis has shown dignity and strength as our country struggled to withstand wave after 
wave of heartache and grief.   Anxiety and fear. Anger and sadness. Seismic changes that  affected all of us…but 
often drove us farther apart.  A year ago, I came before you at a time of enormous challenge: COVID had interrupted 
yet another summer. The psychological and economic effects of the pandemic, as well as the widespread availability 
of guns, continued to push gun violence to new  heights.  That night, I outlined a historic fiscal package aimed 
squarely at  fighting gun violence and strengthening our economy. Working  with all of you, that plan was 
overwhelmingly adopted by this Council and we immediately got to work.  
 
And tonight, we can all come together to celebrate the bipartisan  success stories being written as a result of your 
collective action. We’ve invested in living wage job creation, while making unprecedented investments in affordable 
housing and educational attainment to secure the future of the people of  Indianapolis.  We’ve bolstered our crime 
prevention efforts with the hiring of  dozens of violence interrupters, while providing the largest  infusion of grant 
funding to grassroots anti -violence groups in our city’s history.  We’ve devoted more funding to hiring additional

=== 2022-08-08 minutes, page 2 of 35 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 6 
sworn police  officers–as well as expanding the size of our civilian police force–while making long -overdue 
investments in police technology that will make our community safer and improve accountability.  
 
The results? Since last year’s budget passage:  
- we saw the unemployment rate go far below pre-pandemic levels, 
- Elanco broke ground on a new headquarters at the former GM Stamping Plant site, 
- Corteva named Indianapolis as its global headquarters, 
- IU Health is investing millions to create a new health care campus downtown, 
- the 16 Tech Innovation District and Bottleworks development continue to grow 
- and more cranes are up in the air every day with new investment in Indianapolis. 
 
And as for violent crime this year, I am encouraged to report that just seven months after our anti-violence plan went 
into effect, intentional homicides are down nearly 20%, aggravated assaults are down 16%, and non-fatal shootings 
are down nearly 10%. As we gather tonight, Indianapolis is on pace for the first decline in gun violence since the 
start of the pandemic, and the  largest decline in homicides in well over a decade.   So to my partners on the City -
County Council: the question for all of us this evening is simple. What’s next? 
 
First, I am submitting a budget package tonight that will  continue to invest in the men and women of IMPD. It 
provides substantial hiring bonuses for experienced officers to join our  ranks, and dramatically raises the pay for 
first-year officers to one of the highest levels of any police department in the  Midwest.  Second, I am submitting a 
budget package tonight that will  provide tens of millions of dollars to cut next year’s property tax  bill for the vast 
majority of Marion County homeowners, while continuing to fund critical programs for renters like the Tenant Legal 
Assistance Program and Eviction Avoidance Project.  Third, I am submitting a budget package tonight that --  over 
the next five years --  will invest more than one billion dollars into  roads, streets, sidewalks, and stormwater 
improvements.  Fourth, I am submitting a budget package tonight that will  continue to grow our successful Indy 
Achieves college completion program, providing an additional half a million  dollars in funding to help M arion 
County students achieve their  dream of a high- quality degree or credential.   And perhaps most importantly, I am 
submitting a budget package tonight that will do all of these things – and more – while maintaining strong reserves 
and ensuring that the budget you all consider will be balanced for the sixth consecutive year in a row. 
 
Let me begin with our top priority: investments in public safety.  Last year, we in troduced a 150 -million-dollar, 
three-year gun violence reduction strategy.   Thanks to bipartisan support from this Council, in its first year  this 
strategy has provided significant investments in grassroots  violence reduction and new crime-fighting technology, 
all while boosting funding for new police officers. Since then, intentional homicides are down by nearly 20 percent 
and many other violent crime metrics are on the decline across  our city.  But while the results of our anti -crime 
strategy have been  encouraging, and funding for IMPD is at historically high levels,  I want to be clear about the 
challenges we face in adequately staffing our police department.  As of this evening, IMPD has roughly two hundred 
positions– funded by this Council –that remain unfilled due to a police  staffing shortage that has swept across the 
country, affecting law enforcement agencies large and small. But while other cities are struggling to find resources 
to address this national problem, our fiscal prudence over the past six years  means we can take swift local action.  
That is why tonight, I am proposing to dramatically increase  first-year police officer salaries by 16%, to sixty -one 
thousand eight hundred and twenty-nine dollars a year, while increasing  our hiring bonus for new  officers to 10 
thousand dollars.  Together, this proposal would result in IMPD having the highest first-year compensation package 
for new officers anywhere in  the state.   But just as important as staffing officers to combat gun  violence, is 
preventing violence in the first place. And that  means continuing to make investments in our response to mental  
illness and addiction.   That is why tonight, I am delivering on a promise to establish the City’s first eme rgency 
response team consisting entirely of mental health professionals.  This group of trained healthcare providers will 
respond to cases in which residents face non-violent mental health or substance abuse episodes. Thank you to Faith 
in Indiana, and the many  City County Councill ors, who have advocated for this  investment that will allow us to 
better serves residents and allow police to return to a focus on violent crime. 
 
Last year at this meeting, I assured residents that our  infrastructure—underfunded and neglected for decades —
would receive a historic boost.  With the bipartisan support of the City-County Council, we have invested more than 
1 billion dollars into our roads, bridges, and other infrastructure over the last 7 years.   Tonight, I am submitting to 
the Council a capital improvement  plan that would invest another 1.1 billion dollars for roads,  streets, sidewalks, 
and stormwater improvements over the next five years. That includes 849 million dollars in transportation spending 
and 309 million in s tormwater improvements.  That translates to major projects all around Marion County, from  
Country Club Road on the West Side, to Kentucky Avenue on the Southwest Side, and Bluff Road on the South 
Side; from  Post Road on the East Side and the Keystone Bridge on the  North Side, to Michigan Road on the 
Northwest Side—as well as residential street improvements in every single council district  across our city.  These 
improvements will also make critical investments in efforts to calm traffic, protect pedestrians and bikers, and reduce 
the horrific rise in deaths associated with antiquated street design.  Just as importantly, I continue to work with our

=== 2022-08-08 minutes, page 3 of 35 ===
August 8, 2022 
 
 7  
partners across Central Indiana and in the General Assembly, to urge them to take action to address inequities in the 
state’s road funding formula. I’ve made it clear to them that I will not support raising  vehicle taxes on Marion 
County residents one dime until we receive our fair share of what our residents already pay in taxes each year. 
 
This year represents the sixth straight City -County budget that  has been balanced, bipartisan, and impactful —all 
without raising a single dollar in new taxes.   Our fund balances are healthier than they have been in a  generation; 
credit rating agencies continue to applaud our  conservative approach to fiscal management; and we’re better  
positioned than ever to make investments in neighborhoods.  But all of that is meaningless if residents can’t afford 
to put food on the table, or purchase school supplies for their children due to the effects of rising inflation in this 
country.  While the City does not control the price of consumer goods, we can ensure that our smart fiscal strategy 
benefits residents at a time when they are hurting.   That’s why tonight, I am proposing a 2023 property tax credit  
for the overwhelming majority of Marion County homeowners. That means for homesteads valued at less than four 
hundred thousand dollars, owners will receive at least a one-hundred dollar credit toward their next property tax bill 
– and for those with homesteads valued at less than two hundred and fifty  thousand dollars, that credit will rise to 
one-hundred-and-fifty dollars.  And for those who are not homeowners, this budget package  continues to fund 
Tenant Legal Assistance and offers critical rent relief through our IndyRent program to families most in  need.  To 
date, Indy Rent has deployed more than $150 million in rental assistance since the onset of the pandemic. Over the 
past year, we’ve averaged more than $7 million in rent relief  every month to help keep our neighbors housed and 
prevent unnecessary evictions.  Will these programs end the effects of inflation? Absolutely not.  But I passionately 
believe that every level of government must do its part to help residents during these uncertain economic times. 
 
Finally, perhaps no investment pays bigger dividends for our  city’s long -term future than investment in our 
children’s education. Especially now.  The pandemic has had an enormous impact on all Marion  County students, 
from early-childhood literacy to post-secondary education. We need to invest like never before to lift up those who 
have been impacted the most.   That’s w hy, tonight, we are proposing to expand the Indy Achieves program with 
half a million dollars of additional funding.  This year, nearly five hundred students from IUPUI and Ivy Tech are 
receiving Completion Grants from the Indy Achieves  program. That means hundreds of residents across ever y 
township are using Completion Grants to go back to school and earn degrees that will help shape their careers and 
transform their lives over the coming decades. With tonight’s proposed funding increase for Indy Achieves, that 
impact will grow to nearly seven hundred students next year.  Tonight we are joined by some of our Indy Achieves 
students – can we have them stand and give them a round of applause?  And as important as a post-secondary degree 
is, nothing prepares a young student for success like early childhood  literacy.  That’s why this evening’s budget 
package includes one million dollars to create the Circle City Readers program. This program  will utilize tutors to 
close reading gaps for 1,000 Marion County students in grades K through 3. That focused, one-on-one support will 
give more children the foundation they need to excel in school and make the most of their education. This program 
will operate in partnership with a coalition of local  stakeholders committed to our students’ futures –  tonight we 
have parents, educators, and community leaders in the audience to express their support for this program. Thank 
you all for being here. 
 
The last three years have been tough for our country, our state, and our City.  In the midst of these historic challenges, 
we’ve worked hard to keep our eyes on what matters most.  Fighting gun violence.  Rebuilding our streets and roads.  
Growing our local economy.   And improving student achievement.   For nearly three years now, despite the hard 
days and long nights, we’ve kept our collective faith in each other . . . and believed that tomorrow could be better.  
Gun violence is down.   Our economy is strong.   Our City’s budget remains fully funded and balanced without a  
single tax increase in the last 7 years.  That’s progress.  But it’s not enough, we must build on that.  So . . . let’s get 
back to work.  I thank you. 
 
The President thanked the Mayor for his remarks, then called for a brief recess.  Following a brief 
recess, the President reconvened the meeting and called for the reading of Official 
Communications.  The Clerk read the following: 
 
TO ALL MEMBERS OF THE CITY -COUNTY COUNCIL AND POLICE, FIRE AND SOLID WASTE COLLECTION 
SPECIAL SERVICE DISTRICT COUNCILS OF THE CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND MARION COUNTY, INDIANA 
 
Ladies And Gentlemen : 
 
You are hereby notified the REGULAR MEETINGS of the City-County Council and Police, Fire and Solid Waste Collection 
Special Service District Councils will be held in the City-County Building, in the Council Chambers, on Monday, August 
8, 2022, at 7:00 p.m., the purpose of such MEETINGS being to conduct any and all business that may properly come 
before regular meetings of the Councils. 
 
 Respectfully, 
 s/Vop Osili 
 President, City-County Council

=== 2022-08-08 minutes, page 4 of 35 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 8 
 
July 25, 2022 
 
TO PRESIDENT OSILI AND MEMBERS OF THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL AND POLICE, FIRE AND SOLID WASTE 
COLLECTION SPECIAL SERVICE DISTRICT COUNCILS OF THE CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND MARION COUNTY, 
INDIANA: 
 
Ladies and Gentlemen: 
 
Pursuant to the laws of the State of Indiana, I caused to be published in the Court & Commercial Record  and in the 
Indianapolis Star on Friday, July 29, 2022 a copy of a Notice of Public Hearing on Proposal Nos. 242, 243 and 246, 2022, 
said hearing to be held on Monday, August 8, 2022 at 7:00 p.m. in the Public Assembly Room of the City-County Building, 
200 E. Washington Street.   
 
 Respectfully, 
 s/SaRita Hughes 
 Clerk of the City-County Council 
 
July 15, 2022 
 
 
TO PRESIDENT OSILI AND MEMBERS OF THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL AND POLICE, FIRE AND SOLID WASTE 
COLLECTION SPECIAL SERVICE DISTRICT COUNCILS OF THE CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND MARION COUNTY, 
INDIANA: 
 
Ladies and Gentlemen: 
 
I have approved with my signature and delivered this day to the Clerk of the City -County Council, SaRita Hughes, the 
following ordinance: 
 
FISCAL ORDINANCE NO. 7, 2022 – approves additional appropriations totalling $15,000,000 in the 2022 Budgets of the 
Department of Public Works, Department of Parks and Recreation and Office of Finance and Management 
(Transportation General, Parks General and Consolidated County General Funds) to finance the design, construction 
and inspection of recreational and capital infrastructure projects, and for additional recruitment measures to address 
enterprise staffing needs 
 
FISCAL ORDINANCE NO. 8, 2022 - approves additional appropriations totalling $5,000,000 in the 2022 Budget of the  
Department of Public Works (Transportation General and Stormwater General Funds) to finance increased contractual 
costs and for the design, construction, and inspection of transportation and stormwater capital infrastructure projects 
 
GENERAL ORDINANCE NO. 31, 2022 –  amends the quorum requirement for the membership of the Marion County 
Community Corrections Advisory Board 
 
GENERAL ORDINANCE NO. 32, 2022 – approves a speed limit reduction to 25 miles per hour in the Breckenridge, 
Emerald Ridge at the Pointe, Diamond Ridge at the Pointe, Franklin Parke Estates, Birchwood Park, and Franklin Shire 
subdivisions (District 25) 
 
GENERAL ORDINANCE NO. 33, 2022 – approves a speed limit reduction to 25 miles per hour in the Devon Woods, 
Devon Hills, Devon Ridge, Devon Lake, and Devon Court subdivisions (District 9) 
 
GENERAL ORDINANCE NO. 34, 2022 – approves a speed limit reduction to 25 miles per hour in the Georgetown 
Crossing, Highwoods, Bonham Place, Wides 30th & Kessler, Green Hills, Wood Creek, Robertson Vil lage, Cheswick 
Place, Fairway Woods, Northern Estates, Wolfington on Kessler Boulevard, and Arbordale Highlands subdivisions 
(District 8) 
 
GENERAL ORDINANCE NO. 35, 2022 – approves a speed limit reduction to 25 miles per hour in the Park Valley Estates, 
Building Trades, Glick's Brookview, Trinity Manor, Autumn Ridge, Creekwood Hills, Springs of Hampton, Grassy Creek, 
Creekside Woods, Creekside Meadows and Cedar Springs subdivisions (District 19) 
 
GENERAL ORDINANCE NO. 36, 2022 – approves a speed limit reduction to 25 miles per hour in the Glennview Park, 
Valley Ridge Farms and Hunter's Run subdivisions (Districts 20, 23) 
 
SPECIAL ORDINANCE NO. 8, 2022 –  approves a payment in lieu of taxes (PILOT) by Pedcor Investments, LP, as 
provided by IC 36-3-2-12, for the City Heights Apartment Homes affordable housing project, being financed in part with 
low-income housing tax credits, consisting of a 200 -apartment workforce housing facility for low and moderate income 
individuals and family to be located at Bixler Road and S. East Street (District 16) 
 
SPECIAL RESOLUTION NO. 23, 2022 – honors the Centennial Celebration of Sigma Gamma Rho Sorority, Inc. 
 
SPECIAL RESOLUTION NO. 24, 2022 – honors Madam C.J. Walker and the Walker Legacy Center of Indianapolis 
 
 s/Joseph H. Hogsett, Mayor

=== 2022-08-08 minutes, page 5 of 35 ===
August 8, 2022 
 
 9  
ADOPTION OF THE AGENDA 
 
The President proposed the adoption of the agenda as distributed.  Without objection, the agenda 
was adopted as amended. 
 
APPROVAL OF THE JOURNAL 
 
The President called for additions or corrections to the Journals of July 11, 2022.  There being no 
additions or corrections, the minutes were approved as distributed. 
 
PRESENTATION OF PETITIONS, MEMORIALS, SPECIAL RESOLUTIONS,  
AND COUNCIL RESOLUTIONS 
 
President Osili recognized Ken Clark, City Controller, who gave a brief overview presentation of 
the proposed 2023 City-County Annual Budget.  Some of the key points included: 
 
Multi-Year Strategy: 2017-2022 
• Consistently balanced budgets (revenues > or = expenses) 
• Preserved fund balances and grew balances where possible 
• Protected and improved the city’s credit rating 
• Maintained or increased investments in public safety, infrastructure, neighborhoods and economic development 
 
2023 Proposed Budget Strategy  
• Strategic investments in public safety and infrastructure 
• Conservative revenue estimates while anticipating steady economic growth 
• Continued commitment to no tax increases 
 
2023 Introduced – Balanced Budget 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
President Osili thanked Mr. Clark for his presentation and stated that the Council looks forward to 
working with his staff in the coming months as they navigate through the budget process.   
 
PROPOSAL NO. 290, 2022.  The proposal, sponsored by All Councillors, recognizes the life and 
legacy of former Council President Rozelle Boyd.  Councillors read the proposal and presented 
friends and family with copies of the document and Council pins.  Dr. Winterbourne Harrison-
Jones, pastor of the Witherspoon Presbyterian Church, on behalf of family and friends thanked the 
Council for the recognition.  Councillor Lewis moved, seconded by Councillor Adamson, for 
adoption.  Proposal No. 290, 2022 was adopted by a unanimous voice vote.   
 
Proposal No. 290, 2022 was retitled SPECIAL RESOLUTION NO. 25, 2022, and reads as follows: 
 
CITY-COUNTY SPECIAL RESOLUTION NO. 25, 2022 
 
A SPECIAL RESOLUTION recognizing the life and legacy of former Council President Rozelle Boyd. 
 
WHEREAS, Rozelle Boyd was born  in a still-segregated Indianapolis on April 24, 1934 to William Calvin Boyd, 
Sr. and Ardelia Louise (Leavell) Boyd.  He attended George Washington Carver School 87, Crispus Attucks High School, 
Total City/County 2023 Introduced Budget 
City and County Budgeted Revenues $1,462,144,777 
City and County Budgeted Expenses $1,462,055,326 
Estimated Change in Fund Balance $89,450

=== 2022-08-08 minutes, page 6 of 35 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 10 
Indiana Central College, and received  his Bachelor’s Degree i n history and political science  from Butler University in 
1957, and a Masters in U.S. History from Indiana University-Bloomington as a Lilly Fellow in 1965. Despite the political 
science degree, Mr. Boyd said he never saw himself as  a politician early on, even though he later received the IUPUI 
Chancellor’s Medallion in 2009 for  breaking barriers in Indiana politics, which is bestowed upon people of “vision, 
character, high achievement and distinguished voice;” and 
 
WHEREAS, Boyd spent the first 11 years of his career as a counselor and teacher at Crispus Attucks High School, 
and recalls one of his proudest moments as the day his mother graduated from the adult education program, with her son 
as her counselor and instructor; and 
 
WHEREAS, Boyd then accepted a position as assistant dean at Indiana University, Bloomington, where he became 
the founder-director of the Groups Special Services Program, a program designed to help first-generation, low -income, 
or physically challenged students succeed and thrive in a higher education environment who would not normally be able 
to have the typical college experience; and 
 
WHEREAS, in 1965, Rozelle was encouraged to run on the Democrat Party ticket for the then-County Council (which 
was before the merger of city and county governments under UniGov), becoming the first African-American member of 
the Council. He patiently led his party as minority leader, until Democrats gained the majority in 2004 and elected him 
as the first African-American and first Democrat City-County Council president. Councillor Boyd ended his 42 years of 
service in 2007 as the longest -serving member of the Council, as well as having the longest tenure of any African -
American elected official in the city; and  
 
WHEREAS, as President, Councillor Boyd advocated the Public Academia initiative, which encouraged partnerships 
between local universities and government, and as a result, initiated the Early Intervention Planning Council (EIPC) to develop 
plans for providing early intervention services tailored toward helping at-risk or alleged delinquent children; and 
 
WHEREAS, often referred to as the “dean” of the Council because of his seniority, eloquent speech, calm civility 
and dignified presence, Boyd was well respected among his colleagues, on both sides of the aisle.  He will be remembered 
as a stabilizing force who brought about historic change, encouraged more people to become involved in the local 
governing process, and ensured that the rights of minority interest groups were protected; and 
 
WHEREAS, Mr. Boyd cared deeply about racial unity and the rights of minorities.  He attended Dr. Martin Luther 
King Jr.’s “I Have A Dream” speech; and during his first few years on the Council, he initiated the establishment of Martin 
Luther King’s birthday as a legal holiday for the City of Indianapolis, before it became an official national holiday, for which 
he was later awarded the first annual Outstanding Achievement Award by the Indiana Christian Leadership Conference.  He 
was also involved in helping self -publish a one -hour documentary in 2008 featuring first -person accounts of Robert 
Kennedy’s historic speech promoting peace in inner -city Indianapolis on April 4, 1968, following the assassination of 
Dr. Martin Luther King. The documentary was aptly titled: “A Ripple of Hope:  A true story of personal courage and 
responsibility;” and 
 
WHEREAS, Dean Boyd was a true public servant, serving on many boards, commissions, and committees throughout 
his lifetime, including, but not limited to: the General Board and General Assembly of the National Council of Churches, 
Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity, Inc., Community Action Against Poverty, Indiana Health Careers, Mid-America Association of 
Educational Opportunity Program Personnel (past president), Indiana Interreligious Commission on Human Equality, Indiana 
Association of Cities and Towns, NAACP, Urban League, Indiana Conference on Black Politics, National Council of 
Educational Opportunity Associations, Academy in the Public Service, Central Indiana Council for the Social Studies (past 
vice president), Indianapolis Symphony Orchestra, Greater Indianapolis Task Force on Intergovernmental Relations, Greater 
Indianapolis Progress Committee Board of Directors, Employment and Income Security Committee and Human Development 
Policy Committee of the National League of Cities (past chairman and vice chairman), Board of National League of Cities, 
and National League of Cities Advisory Council; and 
 
WHEREAS, Councillor Boyd also served as group leader and director of the Operations Crossroads Africa Program 
efforts in Botswana, Ethiopia, and Senegal and received innumerable honors and awards for his contributions and dedication 
in the areas of education, public service, justice and leadership; including several editions of Who’s Who, Man of the Year 
(several times from various organizations), Educator of the Year (1978), and Citizen of the Year (1973); and   
 
WHEREAS, Rozelle Boyd passed quietly from this life on Thursday, July 21, 2022, at the age of 88; now, therefore: 
 
BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE 
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA:

=== 2022-08-08 minutes, page 7 of 35 ===
August 8, 2022 
 
 11  
SECTION 1.  The Indianapolis City-County Council proudly recognizes the life and legacy of former City -County 
Council President Rozelle Boyd and acknowledges his historic breaking down of barriers in Indiana politics. 
 
SECTION 2.  The Council and the City of Indianapolis will forever be impacted by the contributions of such a well -
respected, dignified leader and public servant. 
 
SECTION 3.  The Mayor is invited to join in this resolution by affixing his signature hereto. 
 
SECTION 4.  This resolution shall be in full force and effect upon adoption and compliance with IC 36-3-4-14. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 291 , 2022.  The proposal, sponsored by Councillors Adamson and Osili , 
recognizes Professor Paul Mullins for his contributions to IUPUI and to the advancement of the 
public's understanding of the role of the color line in shaping the history and contemporary 
landscape of Indianapolis.  Councillor Adamson read the proposal and presented copies of the 
document and Council pins to representatives .  Sue Hyatt, IUPUI ; A’Lelia Mae Perry Bundles, 
great-great granddaughter of Madame C.J. Walker; and son Aiden thanked the Council on behalf 
of Professor Mullins, who is ill and unable to attend this evening.  Councillor Adamson moved, 
seconded by Councillor Lewis, for adoption.  Proposal No. 291, 2022 was adopted by a unanimous 
voice vote.   
 
Proposal No. 291, 2022 was retitled SPECIAL RESOLUTION NO. 26, 2022, and reads as follows: 
 
CITY-COUNTY SPECIAL RESOLUTION NO. 26, 2022 
 
A SPECIAL RESOLUTION recognizing Professor Paul Mullins for his contributions to IUPUI and to the advancement 
of the public’s understanding of the role of the color line in shaping the history and contemporary landscape of 
Indianapolis. 
 
WHEREAS, during his 23 years as a Professor of Anthropology at IUPUI, Paul Mullins has been the leading 
chronicler of the changing  contours of IUPUI’s campus and its relationship with the near -Westside African-American 
community, emphasizing in his scholarship the rich history of those neighborhoods adjacent to our campus, including 
Indiana Avenue and Ransom Place; and 
 
WHEREAS, Paul Mullins’ work on Indianapolis and the color line has been critically important to the IUPUI 
campus, as we work toward reconciliation with the African -American community and its descendants, who were 
displaced in order to make way for campus construction in the 1960s; and  
 
WHEREAS, beginning in the late 1990s, Paul Mullins organized archaeological excavations on campus and in the 
adjacent Ransom Place neighborhood, that involved students and community residents in a quest to uncover the material 
remains that would help reconstruct the stories of those once-vibrant settlements, a history that might otherwise have 
been lost; and 
  
WHEREAS, through the broad accessible dissemination of this work, Paul Mullins has served as the public face of 
IUPUI for many current and former residents of our city’s near-Westside, as well as for residents of other neighborhoods 
in our city; and 
 
WHEREAS, in 2009, in commemoration of the 40 th anniversary of the establishment of IUPUI, Paul Mullins 
collaborated with local resident, the late Glenn S. White, to produce the book, The Price of Progress, which captured the 
sentiments of community elders, who celebrated the history of their near-Westside neighborhood and reflected upon how 
that community was transformed by urban renewal; and 
  
WHEREAS, in response to the work of Paul Mullins, which called attention to the displacement of the westside 
Black community to make way for the construction of the campus; in 2021, IUPUI established the “Through Their Eyes 
Memorial Scholarship,” which honors the descendants of those ancestors who once called Ransom Place, Indiana Avenue 
and our campus home; and 
 
WHEREAS, Paul Mullins’ research has uncovered and called attention to other historical injustices in Indianapolis, 
including the 1922 lynching of a Black man named George Tomkins in Riverside Park, a revelation that led to the 
establishment of The Indiana Remembrance Coalition, which worked to place a headstone on Tompkins’ previously

=== 2022-08-08 minutes, page 8 of 35 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 12 
unmarked grave and prompted the coroner’s office to correct the death certificate to list the cause of death as a homicide, 
rather than as a suicide; and 
 
WHEREAS, Paul Mullins’ work on Indianapolis’ Black suburbs shows how African-Americans struggled alongside 
other Hoosiers to secure the trappings of the “good life” during the post -war years, a period of almost unprecedented 
expansion of the middle class. Documenting the African -American version of this story is essential for broadening our 
understanding of the multifaceted intersectionality between race, class and upward mobility in our troubled histories; 
now, therefore: 
 
BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE 
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA: 
 
SECTION 1.  The Indianapolis City-County Council recognizes Paul Mullins for his multiple contributions to the work 
of bringing about racial reconciliation in Indianapolis. 
 
SECTION 2.  The Council extends its sincere gratitude and appreciation to Paul Mullins for his research and for his 
public dissemination of that scholarship, which has led to the implementation of significant initiatives aimed at redressing 
injustices and inequalities brought about by the discriminatory power of the color line in our city. 
 
SECTION 3.  The Mayor is invited to join in this resolution by affixing his signature hereto. 
 
SECTION 4.  This resolution shall be in full force and effect upon adoption and compliance with IC 36-3-4-14. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 307, 2022.  The proposal, sponsored by Councillors Brown, Adamson, Barth, 
Boots, Carlino, E. Evans, J. Evans, Gray, Jackson, Jones, Larrison, Lewis, Mascari, McCormick, 
Oliver, Osili, Potts, Ray, Robinson and Graves, expresses support for the protection of reproductive 
rights.  Councillors read the proposal and presented representatives with copies of the document 
and Council pins.    
 
Councillor Hart stated that he will abstain from voting on this item as it is not city business.  
Councillor Brown stated that this is absolutely city business because it deals with health and welfare 
of the people of this County.  She added that she had a dangerous pregnancy and risked her life to 
have her amazing son Dillon, but all women should have the right to make those life -changing 
decisions over their own lives and bodies. 
 
Katie Blair, director of advocacy and public policy, ACLU, thanked the Council for their support 
of this effort and for taking a stand. 
 
Councillor Brown moved, seconded by Councillor McCormick, for adoption.  Proposal No. 307, 
2022 was adopted on the following roll call vote; viz: 
 
20 YEAS: Adamson, Barth, Boots, Brown, Carlino,  Evans-E, Evans-J, Graves, Gray, Jackson, 
Jones, Larrison, Lewis, Mascari, McCormick, Oliver, Osili, Potts, Ray, Robinson 
4 NAYS: Annee, Bain, Dilk, Mowery 
1 NOT VOTING: Hart 
 
Proposal No. 307, 2022 was retitled SPECIAL RESOLUTION NO. 27, 2022, and reads as follows: 
 
CITY-COUNTY SPECIAL RESOLUTION NO. 27, 2022 
 
A PROPOSAL FOR A SPECIAL RESOLUTION expressing support for the protection of reproductive rights. 
 
WHEREAS, the United States Supreme Court on June 24, 2022, issued its decision in Dobbs v. Jackson Women’s 
Health Organization, expressly overturning the Supreme Court’s 1973 Roe v. Wade decision, which determined the 
privacy rights guaranteed under the U. S. Constitution protect the right to terminate a pregnancy, with some limitation, 
and the Supreme Court’s 1992 Planned Parenthood of Southeastern Pa. v. Casey decision, which reaffirmed the central 
holding of Roe; and

=== 2022-08-08 minutes, page 9 of 35 ===
August 8, 2022 
 
 13  
 
WHEREAS, the Dobbs decision takes from millions of Americans a fundamental, protected right to make their own 
reproductive health decisions, including whether and when to carry a pregnancy to term, and accordingly the right to 
bodily integrity and self-determination; and  
 
WHEREAS, the effec ts of Dobbs will be experienced disproportionately by people of color, economically 
disadvantaged people and all others who face discrimination in the health care system; and  
 
WHEREAS, the Dobbs decision will enable states to force women and girls, regardless of age, who are victims of 
rape or incest to carry pregnancies to term, and to subject them to the medical and other risks; and  
 
WHEREAS, the Indiana General Assembly has already enacted some of the strictest abortion laws in the country;  
and 
 
WHEREAS, with the passage of Senate Enrolled Act No. 1 (ss), access to abortion has been severely restricted in 
the Hoosier state; and 
 
WHEREAS, denying reproductive freedom can negatively impact the education, career, financial future, health and 
safety of all who may become pregnant; and  
 
WHEREAS, in light of the foregoing, the City-County Council seeks to express its support for the pr otection of 
reproductive rights and concern about the Dobbs decision and its expected effects; and  
 
WHEREAS, the City-County Council further intends to take such steps as may be appropriate to protect and advance 
the rights of women and girls in Indiana a nd uphold all persons’ rights to privacy, dignity and self -determination; now, 
therefore: 
BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE 
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA: 
 
SECTION 1.  The City-County Council hereby acknowledges the dete rminations and findings contained in the recitals 
set forth above.  
 
SECTION 2.  The City-County Council hereby urges the administration to implement and adopt policies consistent with 
the principles set forth above.  
 
SECTION 3.  The Mayor is invited to join in this resolution by affixing his signature hereto. 
 
SECTION 4.  This resolution shall be in full force and effect upon adoption and compliance with IC 36-3-4-14. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 134, 2022.  Councillor Oliver reported that the Parks and Recreation Committee 
heard Proposal No. 134, 2022 on July 14, 2022.  The proposal, sponsored by Councillor Osili, 
reappoints Lori Kaplan to the Indianapolis Greenways Devel opment Committee.  By a 6- 0 vote, 
the committee reported the proposal to the full Council with the recommendation that it do pass.  
Councillor Oliver moved, seconded by Councillor Adamson, for adoption.  Proposal No. 134, 2022 
was adopted on the following roll call vote; viz: 
 
25 YEAS: Adamson, Annee, Bain, Barth, Boots, Brown, Carlino, Dilk, Evans -E, Evans -J, 
Graves, Gray, Hart, Jackson, Jones, Larrison, Lewis, Mascari, McCormick, Mowery, Oliver, 
Osili, Potts, Ray, Robinson 
0 NAYS:  
 
Proposal No. 134, 2022 was retitled COUNCIL RESOLUTION NO. 6 3, 2022, and reads as 
follows: 
 
CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL RESOLUTION NO. 63, 2022 
 
A COUNCIL RESOLUTION reappointing Lori Kaplan to the Indianapolis Greenways Development Committee.

=== 2022-08-08 minutes, page 10 of 35 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 14 
 
BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE 
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA: 
 
SECTION 1. As a member of the Indianapolis Greenways Development Committee, the Council reappoints:  
 
Lori Kaplan 
 
SECTION 2. The reappointment made by this resolution is for a term ending December 31, 2025.  The person appointed 
by this resolution shall serve at the pleasure of the Council.  Upon expiration of the term, the appointee may serve until 
his or her successor is appointed and qualifies, for a period not to exceed the holdover duration set by statute. 
 
Councillor Lewis reported that the Metropolitan and Economic Development Committee heard 
Proposal Nos. 200 and 240, 2022 on July 18, 2022.   
 
PROPOSAL NO. 200, 2022.  The proposal, sponsored by Councillor Osili, appoints Anthony 
Bridgeman to the Metropolitan Board of Zoning Appeals, Division I.  PROPOSAL NO. 240, 2022.  
The proposal, sponsored by Councillor Osili , appoints Victoria Beaty to the City Market 
Corporation Board of Directors .  By 12- 0 votes, the committee reported the proposals to the full 
Council with the recommendation that they do pass.  Councillor Lewis moved, seconded by 
Councillor Adamson, for adoption.  Proposal Nos. 200 and 240, 2022 were adopted on the 
following roll call vote; viz: 
 
25 YEAS: Adamson, Annee, Bain, Barth, Boots, Brown, Carlino, Dilk, Evans -E, Evans -J, 
Graves, Gray, Hart, Jackson, Jones, Larrison, Lewis, Mascari, McCormick, Mowery, Oliver, 
Osili, Potts, Ray, Robinson 
0 NAYS:  
 
Proposal No. 200, 2022 was retitled COUNCIL RESOLUTION NO. 6 4, 2022, and reads as 
follows: 
 
CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL RESOLUTION NO. 64, 2022 
 
A COUNCIL RESOLUTION appointing Anthony Bridgeman to the Metropolitan Board of Zoning Appeals, Division I. 
 
BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE 
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA: 
 
SECTION 1. As a member of the Metropolitan Board of Zoning Appeals, Division I, the Council appoints:  
 
Anthony Bridgeman 
 
SECTION 2. The appointment made by this resolution is for a term ending December 31, 2022.  The person appointed by 
this resolution shall serve at the pleasure of the Council and until his or her successor is appointed and qualifies, unless the 
duration of the holdover period for this office is limited by statute. 
 
Proposal No. 240, 2022 was retitled COUNCIL RESOLUTION NO. 6 5, 2022, and reads as 
follows: 
 
CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL RESOLUTION NO. 65, 2022 
 
A COUNCIL RESOLUTION appoints Victoria Beaty to the City Market Corporation Board of Directors. 
 
BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE 
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA:

=== 2022-08-08 minutes, page 11 of 35 ===
August 8, 2022 
 
 15  
SECTION 1. As a member of the City Market Corporation Board of Directors, the Council appoints:  
 
Victoria Beaty 
 
SECTION 2.  The appointment made by this resolution is for a term ending December 31, 2022.  The person appointed by 
this resolution shall serve at the pleasure of the Council. Upon expiration of the term, the appointee may serve until his 
or her successor is appointed and qualifies, for a period not to exceed the holdover duration set by statute. 
 
Councillor Robinson reported that the Public Safety and Criminal Justice Committee heard 
Proposal Nos. 170 and 202, 2022 on July 20, 2022.  He asked for consent to vote on these proposals 
together.  Consent was given.  
 
PROPOSAL NO. 170, 2022.  The proposa l, sponsored by Councillor Mowery, appoints Abdul-
Hakim Shabazz to the Marion County Public Defender Board.  PROPOSAL NO. 202, 2022.  The 
proposal, sponsored by Councillors Mowery and Boots , appoints Matthew Dodson to the Marion 
County Public Defender Boar d.  By 11- 0 votes, the committee reported the proposals to the full 
Council with the recommendation that they do pass.  Councillor Robinson moved, seconded by 
Councillor Adamson, for adoption.  Proposal Nos. 170 and 202, 2022 were adopted on the 
following roll call vote; viz: 
 
25 YEAS: Adamson, Annee, Bain, Barth, Boots, Brown, Carlino, Dilk, Evans -E, Evans -J, 
Graves, Gray, Hart, Jackson, Jones, Larrison, Lewis, Mascari, McCormick, Mowery, Oliver, 
Osili, Potts, Ray, Robinson 
0 NAYS:  
 
Proposal No. 170, 2022 was retitled COUNCIL RESOLUTION NO. 6 6, 2022, and reads as 
follows: 
 
CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL RESOLUTION NO. 66, 2022 
 
A COUNCIL RESOLUTION appointing Abdul-Hakim Shabazz to the Marion County Public Defender Board. 
 
BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE 
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA: 
 
SECTION 1. As a member of the Marion County Public Defender Board, the Council appoints:  
 
Abdul-Hakim Shabazz 
 
SECTION 2. The appointment made by this resolution is for a term ending December 31, 2024.  The person appointed 
by this resolution shall serve at the pleasure of the Council and until his or her successor is appointed and qualifies, unless 
the duration of the holdover period for this office is limited by statute. 
 
Proposal No. 202, 2022 was retitled COUNCIL RESOLUTION NO. 6 7, 2022, and reads as 
follows: 
 
CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL RESOLUTION NO. 67, 2022 
 
A COUNCIL RESOLUTION appointing Matthew Dodson to the Marion County Public Defender Board. 
 
BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE 
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA: 
 
SECTION 1. As a member of the Marion County Public Defender Board, the Council appoints:  
 
Matthew Dodson

=== 2022-08-08 minutes, page 12 of 35 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 16 
SECTION 2. The appointment made by this resolution is for a term ending December 31, 2024.  The person appointed 
by this resolution shall serve at the pleasure of the Council and until his or her successor is appointed and qualifies, unless 
the duration of the holdover period for this office is limited by statute. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 205, 2022.  Councillor Mascari reported that the Administra tion and Finance 
Committee heard Proposal No. 205, 2022 on July 26, 2022.  The proposal, sponsored by Councillor 
Osili, appoints Holli Harrington to the Indianapolis -Marion County Building Authority Board of 
Trustees.  By an 11 -0 vote, the committee report ed the proposal to the full Council with the 
recommendation that it do pass.  Councillor Mascari moved, seconded by Councillor Adamson, for 
adoption.  Proposal No. 205, 2022 was adopted on the following roll call vote; viz: 
 
25 YEAS: Adamson, Annee, Bain, Barth, Boots, Brown, Carlino, Dilk, Evans -E, Evans -J, 
Graves, Gray, Hart, Jackson, Jones, Larrison, Lewis, Mascari, McCormick, Mowery, Oliver, 
Osili, Potts, Ray, Robinson 
0 NAYS:  
 
Proposal No. 205, 2022 was retitled COUNCIL RESOLUTION NO. 6 8, 2022, and re ads as 
follows: 
 
CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL RESOLUTION NO. 68, 2022 
 
A COUNCIL RESOLUTION appointing Holli Harrington to the Indianapolis-Marion County Building Authority Board 
of Trustees. 
 
BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE 
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA: 
 
SECTION 1. As a member of the Indianapolis -Marion County Building Authority Board of Trustees , the Council 
appoints:  
 
Holli Harrington 
 
SECTION 2.  The appointment made by this resolution is for a term ending June 30, 2023.  The person appointed by this 
resolution shall serve at the pleasure of the Council. Upon expiration of the term, the appointee may serve until his or her 
successor is appointed and qualifies, for a period not to exceed the holdover duration set by statute. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 245, 2022.  Councillor Jackson reported that the Community Affairs Committee 
heard Proposal No. 245, 2022 on July 27, 2022.  The proposal, sponsored by Councillor Osili, 
reappoints John Barth to the Public Art for Neighborhoods Selection Committee .  By a 7 -0 vote, 
the committee reported the proposal to the full Council with the recommendation that it do pass.  
Councillor Jackson moved, seconded by Councillor Lewis, for adoption.  Proposal No. 245, 2022 
was adopted on the following roll call vote; viz: 
 
25 YEAS: Adam son, Annee, Bain, Barth, Boots, Brown, Carlino, Dilk, Evans -E, Evans -J, 
Graves, Gray, Hart, Jackson, Jones, Larrison, Lewis, Mascari, McCormick, Mowery, Oliver, 
Osili, Potts, Ray, Robinson 
0 NAYS:  
 
Proposal No. 245, 2022 was retitled COUNCIL RESOLUTION NO. 6 9, 2022, and reads as 
follows: 
 
CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL RESOLUTION NO. 69, 2022 
 
A COUNCIL RESOLUTION reappointing John Barth to the Public Art for Neighborhoods Selection Committee.

=== 2022-08-08 minutes, page 13 of 35 ===
August 8, 2022 
 
 17  
BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE 
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA: 
 
SECTION 1. As a member of the Public Art for Neighborhoods Selection Committee, the Council reappoints:  
 
John Barth 
 
SECTION 2. The appointment made by this resolution is for a term ending May 12, 2024.  The person appointed by this 
resolution shall serve at the ple asure of the Council and until his or her successor is appointed and qualifies, unless the 
duration of the holdover period for this office is limited by statute. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 251, 2022.  Councillor Adamson reported that the Public Works Committee 
heard Proposal No. 251, 2022 on July 21, 2022.  The proposal, sponsored by Councillor Osili, 
appoints Damon Richards to the Fatal Crash Review Team.  By a 10-0 vote, the committee reported 
the proposal to the full Council with the recommendation that it do pass.  Councillor Adamson 
moved, seconded by Councillor Barth, for adoption.  Proposal No. 251, 2022 was adopted on the 
following roll call vote; viz: 
 
25 YEAS: Adamson, Annee, Bain, Barth, Boots, Brown, Carlino, Dilk, Evans -E, Evans -J, 
Graves, Gray, Hart, Jackson, Jones, Larrison, Lewis, Mascari, McCormick, Mowery, Oliver, 
Osili, Potts, Ray, Robinson 
0 NAYS:  
 
Proposal No. 251, 2022 was retitled COUNCIL RESOLUTION NO. 70, 2022, and reads as 
follows: 
 
CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL RESOLUTION NO. 70, 2022 
 
A COUNCIL RESOLUTION appointing Damon Richards to Fatal Crash Review Team. 
 
BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE 
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA: 
 
SECTION 1.  As a member of the Fatal Crash Review Team, the Council appoints:  
 
Damon Richards 
 
SECTION 2.  The appointment made by this resolution is for a term ending December 31, 2023.  The person appointed by 
this resolution shall serve at the pleasure of the Council. Upon expiration of the term, the appointee may serve until his 
or her successor is appointed and qualifies, for a period not to exceed the holdover duration set by statute. 
 
INTRODUCTION OF PROPOSALS 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 266, 2022. Introduced by Councillor Mowery.  The Clerk read the proposal 
entitled:  "A Proposal for a Council Resolution which appoints Chris Mitchem to the Equal 
Opportunity Advisory Board"; and the President referred it to the Administration and Finance 
Committee. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 267, 2022. Introduced by Councillor Osili.  The Clerk read the proposal entitled:  
"A Proposal for a Council Re solution which reappoints Amy Carroll to the Public Art for 
Neighborhoods Selection Committee"; and the President referred it to the Community Affairs 
Committee. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 268, 2022. Introduced by Councillors Osili and Lewis.  The Clerk read the 
proposal entitled:  "A Proposal for a Council Resolution which appoints Vincent Ash to the

=== 2022-08-08 minutes, page 14 of 35 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 18 
Metropolitan Development Commission"; and the President referred it to the Met ropolitan and 
Economic Development Committee. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 269, 2022. Introduced by Councillor Robinson.  The Clerk read the proposal 
entitled:  "A Proposal for a Council Resolution which appoints Scott Carr to the Marion County 
Community Corrections Advi sory Board"; and the President referred it to the Public Safety and 
Criminal Justice Committee. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 270, 2022. Introduced by Councillor Barth.  The Clerk read the proposal entitled:  
"A Proposal for a Council Resolution which appoints Tedd Grain to the Fatal Crash Review Team"; 
and the President referred it to the Public Works Committee. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 271, 2022. Introduced by Councillor Jackson.  The Clerk read the proposal 
entitled:  "A Proposal for a General Ordinance which authorizes a speed limit reduction to 25 mph 
in the North German Church Woods, Bradford Trace, Justus Country Club Estates and Brook Wood 
subdivisions (District 14)"; and the President referred it to the Public Works Committee. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 272, 2022. Introduced by Councillor  Carlino.  The Clerk read the proposal 
entitled:  "A Proposal for a General Ordinance which authorizes a speed limit reduction to 25 mph 
in the Hunters Green subdivision (District 6)"; and the President referred it to the Public Works 
Committee. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 273, 2022. Introduced by Councillor Potts.  The Clerk read the proposal entitled:  
"A Proposal for a General Ordinance which authorizes a speed limit reduction to 25 mph in the 
Country Side and Windcombe subdivisions (District 2)"; and the President referred it to the Public 
Works Committee. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 274, 2022. Introduced by Councillors Robinson and Barth.  The Clerk read the 
proposal entitled:  "A Proposal for a General Ordinance which authorizes a speed limit reduction 
to 25 mph in the Holiday Addition, Park North and Sycamore Grove subdivisions (Districts 1,7)"; 
and the President referred it to the Public Works Committee. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 275, 2022. Introduced by Councillor Boots.  The Clerk read the proposal entitled:  
"A Proposal for a Ge neral Ordinance which authorizes a speed limit reduction to 25 mph in the 
Mendenhall's Pleasant Acres and Allisonville Estates subdivisions (District 3)"; and the President 
referred it to the Public Works Committee. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 276, 2022. Introduced by Councillor Hart.  The Clerk read the proposal entitled:  
"A Proposal for a General Ordinance which authorizes a speed limit reduction to 25 mph in the 
Arlington Acres, Arlington Acres North, Southern View, Hanover, Hanover North, Churchman 
Manor and Spring Lake subdivisions (District 18)"; and the President referred it to the Public Works 
Committee. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 277, 2022. Introduced by Councillor Dilk.  The Clerk read the proposal entitled:  
"A Proposal for a General Ordinance which authorizes a speed limi t reduction to 25 mph in the 
Brookfield Estates, Perry Manor, FE Payne's Rolling Acres, Perry Woods Estates, Longacre, 
Martin Burton's and Edwin E. Thompson's subdivisions (District 24)"; and the President referred it 
to the Public Works Committee. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 278, 2022. Introduced by Councillor Graves.  The Clerk read the proposal 
entitled:  "A Proposal for a General Ordinance which authorizes a speed limit reduction to 25 mph

=== 2022-08-08 minutes, page 15 of 35 ===
August 8, 2022 
 
 19  
in the Arlington Woods, Success and Arlington Place subdivisions (District 13)"; and the President 
referred it to the Public Works Committee. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 279, 2022. Introduced by Councillor McCormick.  The Clerk read the proposal 
entitled:  "A Proposal for a General Ordinance which authorizes a speed limit reduction to 25 mph 
in the Farley's Speedway Homeplace and Anchorage subdivisions (District 15)"; and the President 
referred it to the Public Works Committee. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 280, 2022. Introduced by Councillor Larrison.  The Clerk read the proposal 
entitled:  "A Proposal for a General Ordinance which authorizes a speed limit reduction to 25 mph 
on all local streets within the area bounded by Washington Street, Arlington Avenue, Brookville 
Road and Emerson Avenue (District 12)"; and the President referred it to the Public Works 
Committee. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 281, 2022. Introduced by Councillor Larrison.  The Clerk read the proposal 
entitled:  "A Proposal for a General Ordinance which authorizes a speed limit reduction to 25 mph 
on all local streets within the area bounded by 10th Street, A rlington Avenue, Washington Street 
and Emerson Avenue (District 12)"; and the President referred it to the Public Works Committee. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 282, 2022. Introduced by Councillors Jackson and Ray.  The Clerk read the 
proposal entitled:  "A Proposal for a  General Ordinance which authorizes a speed limit reduction 
to 25 mph in the Heather Hills subdivision (Districts 14,19)"; and the President referred it to the 
Public Works Committee. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 283, 2022. Introduced by Councillor Robinson.  The Clerk read the proposal 
entitled:  "A Proposal for a General Ordinance which authorizes a speed limit reduction to 25 mph 
in the Crooked Creek Heights, Crooked Creek Heights West, Hoover Crest  and Colony Woods 
subdivisions (District 1)"; and the President referred it to the Public Works Committee. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 284, 2022. Introduced by Councillor Adamson.  The Clerk read the proposal 
entitled:  "A Proposal for a General Ordinance which authorizes residential permit parking at 1625 
Sturm Avenue (District 17)"; and the President referred it to the Public Works Committee. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 285, 2022. Introduced by Councillor Jones.  The Clerk read the proposal entitled:  
"A Proposal for a General Resol ution which establishes the interest in purchasing specified land 
owned by OmniSource Indianapolis, LLC located between S. Holt Road, W. Minnesota Street, and 
Sam Jones Expressway for the construction of a construction project by the Department of Public 
Works (District 16)"; and the President referred it to the Public Works Committee. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 286, 2022. Introduced by Councillors Osili, Adamson, Lewis and Robinson.  The 
Clerk read the proposal entitled:  "A Proposal for a Police Special Service District Fiscal Ordinance 
which approves the tax levy and rate for the Police Special Service District for 2023"; and the 
President referred it to the Public Safety and Criminal Justice Committee. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 287, 2022. Introduced by Councillors Osili, Adamson, Lewis and Robinson.  The 
Clerk read the proposal entitled:  "A Proposal for a Fire Special Service District Fiscal Ordinance 
which approves the tax levy and rate for the Fire Special Service District for 2023"; and the 
President referred it to the Public Safety and Criminal Justice Committee. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 288, 2022. Introduced by Councillors Osili, Adamson and Lewis.  The Clerk 
read the proposal entitled:  "A Proposal for a Solid Waste Collection Special Service District Fiscal

=== 2022-08-08 minutes, page 16 of 35 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 20 
Ordinance which approves t he tax levy and rate for the Solid Waste Collection Special Service 
District for 2023"; and the President referred it to the Public Works Committee. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 289, 2022. Introduced by Councillors Osili, Adamson and Lewis.  The Clerk 
read the proposal entitled:  "A Proposal for a Fiscal Ordinance which adopts the annual budget for 
the City of Indianapolis and Marion County for 2023"; and the President referred it to the 
Administration and Finance, Education, Metropolitan and Economic Development, Parks a nd 
Recreation, Public Safety and Criminal Justice and Public Works Committees. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 308, 2022. Introduced by Councillor Adamson.  The Clerk read the proposal 
entitled:  "A Proposal for a Council Resolution which appoints Danielle Hynes to the Mari on 
County Animal Services Advisory Board"; and the President referred it to the Metropolitan and 
Economic Development Committee. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 309, 2022. Introduced by Councillor Osili.  The Clerk read the proposal entitled:  
"A Proposal for a Fiscal Ordin ance which approves an additional appropriation totaling 
$206,309,559 in 2022 City Non-Departmental Budget (ARPA Coronavirus Local Fiscal Recovery 
Subfund) and another totalling $20,053,356 (Rental Assistance Subfund) to fund response efforts 
addressing the COVID- 19 pandemic, including public -health measures; programs to combat the 
secondary economic effects of the pandemic faced by Marion County residents, small businesses, 
and non- profits; and to defray expenses incurred, or that will be incurred, by City- County 
government in response to the pandemic"; and the President referred it to the Administration and 
Finance Committee. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 310, 2022. Introduced by Councillor Osili.  The Clerk read the proposal entitled:  
"A Proposal for a Fiscal Ordinance which approves an additional appropriation totalling 
$21,000,000 in the 2022 City Non- Departmental Budget (ARPA Coronavirus Local Fiscal 
Recovery Subfund of the Federal Stimulus -Coronavirus Pandemic Fund) for the purposes of 
providing property tax relief for homeowners"; and the President referred it to the Administration 
and Finance Committee. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 311, 2022. Introduced by Councillor Adamson.  The Clerk read the proposal 
entitled:  "A Proposal for a Fiscal Ordinance which approves additional appropriations totaling 
$40,000,000 in the 2022 Budget of the Department of Public Works (Capital Asset Lifecycle and 
Development Fund) to finance design, construction, and inspection costs related to residential 
streets and thoroughfare capital improvements"; and the President referred it to the Public Works 
Committee. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 312, 2022. Introduced by Councillor Osili.  The Clerk read the proposal entitled:  
"A Proposal for a General Resolution which proposes a resolution of the Marion County Local 
Income Tax Council to request approval from the department of local government finance to lower 
the levy freeze rate and to cast the vote of the City -County Council on such resolution"; and the 
President referred it to the Administration and Finance Committee. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 313, 2022. Introduced by Councillor Mascari.  The Clerk read the proposal 
entitled:  "A Proposal for a Special Ordinance which authorizes the issuance of general obligation 
bonds of the Consolidated City, in one or more series, in an aggregate  principal amount not to 
exceed $25,000,000 to finance the acquisition, construction, installation and equipping of:  1) a 
new fire station; 2) necessary repair and renovation of numerous Indianapolis Fire Department 
stations; 3) City Market improvements; and 4) Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Park improvements"; 
and the President referred it to the Administration and Finance Committee.

=== 2022-08-08 minutes, page 17 of 35 ===
August 8, 2022 
 
 21  
 
SPECIAL ORDERS - PRIORITY BUSINESS 
 
PROPOSAL NOS. 292- 293, 2022 and PROPOSAL NOS. 294- 305, 2022.  Introduced by 
Councillor Lewis.  Proposal Nos. 292-293, 2022, and Proposal Nos. 294-305, 2022 are proposals 
for Rezoning Ordinances certified for approval by the Metropolitan Development Commission on 
July 7 and 21, 2022, respectively.  The President called for any motions for public hearings on any 
of those zoning maps changes.  There being no motions for public hearings, the proposed 
ordinances, pursuant to IC 36-7-4-608, took effect as if adopted by the City-County Council, were 
retitled for identification as REZONING ORDINANCE NOS. 89-102, 2022, the original copies of 
which ordinances are on file with the Metropolitan Development Commission, which were certified 
as follows: 
 
REZONING ORDINANCE NO. 89, 2022. 
2022-ZON-058  
722 EAST COUNTY LINE ROAD AND 8808 SHELBY STREET (APPROXIMATE ADDRESSES)  
PERRY TOWNSHIP, COUNCIL DISTRICT #23  
SUBURBAN BAPTIST CHURCH, by Jeremy Wilhelm  
Rezoning of 19.04 acres from the SU-1 and D-A (FF) districts to the SU-1 (FF) district to provide for 
religious uses.  
 
REZONING ORDINANCE NO. 90, 2022. 
2022-ZON-064  
6514 EAST WASHINGTON STREET (APPROXIMATE ADDRESS)  
WARREN TOWNSHIP, COUNCIL DISTRICT #12  
MATTHEW PRESTON & VICTORIA VESPO-PRESTON, by Sarah Walters  
Rezoning of 0.15 acre from the C-4 (TOD) district to the D-5 district to provide for residential uses. 
 
REZONING ORDINANCE NO. 91, 2022. 
2022-ZON-031 
373 NORTH HOLMES AVENUE (APPROXIMATE ADDRESS) 
WAYNE TOWNSHIP, COUNCIL DISTRICT #11 
BROTHERS TRANSPORT, LLC, by David Gilman 
Rezoning of 0.76 acre from the D-5 district to the D-5II district to provide for a residential development. 
 
REZONING ORDINANCE NO. 92, 2022. 
2022-ZON-037 
1212 CASTANIA DRIVE (APPROXIMATE ADDRESS) 
WASHINGTON TOWNSHIP, COUNCIL DISTRICT #7 
Linden House Indiana Holdings, LLC, by Timothy E. Ochs 
Rezoning of 151.5 acres from the D-P (FW) (FF) district to the C-S (FW) (FF) district to permit the following 
uses: Single-family detached dwellings, museum, library, art gallery, eating establishment, food preparation, 
retail sales of furniture, interior decorations, home furnishings and homeware, interior design services and 
consulting, banquet and event center, boat house, maintenance building, boat or canoe launch. 
 
REZONING ORDINANCE NO. 93, 2022. 
2022-ZON-055 
4501 NORTH DEARBORN STREET (APPROXIMATE ADDRESS) 
WASHINGTON TOWNSHIP, COUNCIL DISTRICT #9 
LAWRENCE HOWARD 
Rezoning of 1.73 acres from the D-7 (FF) (W-5) district to the D-5 (FF) (W-5) district. 
 
REZONING ORDINANCE NO. 94, 2022. 
2022-ZON-067 
3100 NORTH MERIDIAN STREET (APPROXIMATE ADDRESS)  
CENTER TOWNSHIP, COUNCIL DISTRICT #9  
SIDNEY ENTERPRISES, LLC, by David Kingen and Emily Duncan  
Rezoning of 1.36 acres from the SU-7 district to the SU-2 district to provide for educational uses.

=== 2022-08-08 minutes, page 18 of 35 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 22 
REZONING ORDINANCE NO. 95, 2022. 
2022-ZON-068 
1435 SOUTH MICKLEY AVENUE (APPROXIMATE ADDRESS)  
WAYNE TOWNSHIP, COUNCIL DISTRICT #22  
SEEDS OF HOPE INC., by Roger L. Kessler  
Rezoning of 2.34 acres from the SU-1 district to the SU-7 district to provide for a women’s semi-independent 
living addiction recovery facility. 
 
REZONING ORDINANCE NO. 96, 2022. 
2022-ZON-070 
3108 EAST MICHIGAN STREET (APPROXIMATE ADDRESS)  
CENTER TOWNSHIP, COUNCIL DISTRICT #12 
JOE SMOKER 
Rezoning of 0.197 acre from the MU-1 districts to the D-5 district to provide for residential uses. 
 
REZONING ORDINANCE NO. 97, 2022. 
2022-ZON-072 
5041 EAST 16TH STREET (APPROXIMATE ADDRESS)  
CENTER TOWNSHIP, COUNCIL DISTRICT #12  
4731 WEST WASHINGTON STREET, LLC, by Russell L. Brown 
Rezoning of 0.63 acre from the C-3 district to the C-4 district to provide for a liquor store. 
 
REZONING ORDINANCE NO. 98, 2022. 
2022-ZON-073 
3415 NORTH SHERMAN DRIVE (APPROXIMATE ADDRESS) 
CENTER TOWNSHIP, COUNCIL DISTRICT #9 
THOMAS GRAHAM 
Rezoning of 0.16 acre from the C-4 district to the D-5 district to provide for residential uses. 
 
REZONING ORDINANCE NO. 99, 2022. 
2021-CZN-858 
5380 AND 5390 ROCKVILLE ROAD (APPROXIMATE ADDRESSES) 
WAYNE TOWNSHIP, COUNCIL DISTRICT #15  
EXTRA SPACE PROPERTIES TWO, LLC, by Joseph D. Calderon 
Rezoning of 5.89 acres from the C-S district to the C-S district to provide for additional self-storage buildings 
on the parcel addressed as 5380 Rockville Road. 
 
REZONING ORDINANCE NO. 100, 2022. 
2022-CZN-818 
1105 AND 1107 ENGLISH AVENUE (APPROXIMATE ADDRESS) 
CENTER TOWNSHIP, COUNCIL DISTRICT #17 
LP 2, LLC, by Luke Burrow 
Rezoning of 0.11 acre from the C-5 district to the D-8 district. 
 
REZONING ORDINANCE NO. 101, 2022. 
2022-CZN-826 
4701 TODD ROAD (APPROXIMATE ADDRESS) 
PERRY TOWNSHIP, COUNCIL DISTRICT #24 
CLOVER COMMUNITIES INDIANAPOLIS, LLC, by Timothy E. Ochs 
Rezoning of 11.81 acres from the C-1 (FF) district to the D-7 (FF) district to legally establish multi-family 
uses. 
 
REZONING ORDINANCE NO. 102, 2022. 
2022-CZN-829 
921 VIRGINIA AVENUE (APPROXIMATE ADDRESS)  
CENTER TOWNSHIP, COUNCIL DISTRICT #16  
C GPD FOUNTAIN SQUARE, LLC, by Michael Rabinowitch 
Rezoning of 1.49 acres from the D-8 and C-5 districts to the MU-2 (TOD) district. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 306, 2022.  Introduced by Councillor Lewis.  Proposal No. 306, 2022 is a 
proposal for  Rezoning Ordinance certified by the Metropolitan Development Commi ssion for

=== 2022-08-08 minutes, page 19 of 35 ===
August 8, 2022 
 
 23  
denial on July 7, 2022.  The President called for any motions for public hearings on this zoning 
maps change.  There being no motions for public hearings, the proposed ordinance, pursuant to IC 
36-7-4-608, was denied by the City- County Council, the original copy of which ordinance is  on 
file with the Metropolitan Development Commission, which was certified as follows: 
 
2022-ZON-024  
2657 AND 2737 SOUTH RITTER AVENUE AND 5500 EAST TROY AVENUE (APPROXIMATE ADDRESS) 
WARREN TOWNSHIP, COUNCIL DISTRICT #18 
ARBOR HOMES, by Caitlin Dopher 
Rezoning of 62.02 acres from the D-A and D-4 (FF) districts to the D-P (FF) district to allow for a subdivision 
with up to 220 single-family lots. 
 
SPECIAL ORDERS - PUBLIC HEARING 
 
President Osili called on General Counsel Toae Kim to review the ground rules for public testimony 
as adopted by this body.  Ms. Kim reminded Council members and the public of the ground rules 
for the public comment portion of the agenda.  She said that in order for everyone to have a fair 
chance to speak and be heard, it is important to observe the following rules.  First, each speaker 
will be limited to two minutes.  Second, any public comments must reasonably relate to the agenda 
item under consideration.  Third, speakers who stray from the item under consideration or become 
unduly repetitious may be asked to move on to their next point or conclude their comments.  Finally, 
attendees who cause disruptions that prevent the Council from proceeding through today’s agenda 
in a reasonably efficient manner will be removed.  Ms. Kim added that some types of threatening 
speech or incitement to violence are not protected by the First Amendm ent and will be dealt with 
if they come up.   
 
PROPOSAL NO. 242, 2022.  Councillor Mascari reported that the Administration and Finance 
Committee heard Proposal No. 242, 2022 on July 26, 2022.  The proposal, sponsored by 
Councillors Brown, Barth and Carlino, approves an additional appropriation of $250,000 in the 
2022 Budget of the Marion County Information Services Agency (Enhanced Access Fund) to 
finance the cost of implementing closed captioning to all live and post-produced programming for 
Channel 16.  By a 12-0 vote, the committee reported the proposal to the full Council with the 
recommendation that it do pass.   
 
The President called for public testimony at 9:10  p.m.  There being no one present to testify,  
Councillor Mascari moved, seconded by Councillor Adamson, for adoption.  Proposal No. 242 , 
2022 was adopted on the following roll call vote; viz: 
 
24 YEAS: Adamson, Annee, Bain, Barth, Boots, Brown, Carlino, Dilk, Evans-E, Graves, Gray, 
Hart, Jackson, Jones, Larrison, Lewis, Mascari, McCormick, Mowery, Oliver, Osili, Potts, Ray, 
Robinson 
0 NAYS:  
1 NOT VOTING: Evans-J 
 
Proposal No. 242, 2022 was retitled FISCAL ORDINANCE NO. 9, 2022, and reads as follows: 
 
CITY-COUNTY FISCAL ORDINANCE NO. 9, 2022 
 
A FISCAL ORDINANCE amending the City-County Annual Budget for 2022 (City-County Fiscal Ordinance No. 22, 2021) 
by an additional appropriation of two hundred fifty thousand dollars ( $250,000) for the purposes of the Marion County 
Information Services Agency. 
 
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE 
 CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA:

=== 2022-08-08 minutes, page 20 of 35 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 24 
 
SECTION 1.   To provide for expenditures the necessity for which has arisen since its adoption, the City-County Annual 
Budget for 2022  is hereby amended by the character increases  hereinafter stated for purposes of the Marion County 
Information Services Agency. 
 
SECTION 2.  The Marion County Information Services Agency requests an additional appropriation in the Enhanced Access 
fund totaling thirty-four thousand dollars ($34,000) in character three and two-hundred sixteen thousand dollars ($216,000) 
in character four for the purposes of financing the cost of implementing closed captioning to all live and post-produced 
programming for Channel 16: 
 
FUND CHAR 1 CHAR 2 CHAR 3 CHAR 4 CHAR 5 TOTAL 
Enhanced 
Access fund    34,000 216,000  
 250,000 
 
SECTION 3.  Upon approval of this and other pending proposals, the following unappropriated fund balances are projected 
to remain at the end of 2022: 
 
Fund 2021 Year-End Balance Projected 2022 Year-End Balance 
Enhanced Access Fund 777,868 712,652 
 
SECTION 4.  This ordinance shall be in full force and effect upon adoption and compliance with IC 36-3-4-14.  
 
PROPOSAL NO. 243, 2022.  Councillor Robi nson reported that the Public Safety and Criminal 
Justice Committee heard Proposal No. 243, 2022 on July 20, 2022.  T he proposal, sponsored by 
Councillor Robinson, approves additional appropriations totalling $3,762,263 in the 2022 Budgets 
of the Marion County Coroner, Department of Metropolitan Development, Office of Public Health 
and Safety, Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department and Indianapolis Fire Department (City 
and County State Grant Funds) to finance treatment, education, and prevention programs for 
substance use disorder or mental health issues from the opioid settlement to be received by the State 
of Indiana and distributed to local governments .  By a 13- 0 vote, the committee reported the 
proposal to the full Council with the recommendation that it do pass.   
 
Councillor J. Evans asked why the fire department did not seem to know anything about this 
funding.  Lauren Rodriguez, director, Office of Public Health and Safety (OPHS), stated that they 
did not want to promise anything before securing the funds, but have been working with Emergency 
Management Services and the next step is to tell them this funding has become available.   
 
The President called for public testimony at 9:12  p.m.  There being no one present to testify,  
Councillor Robinson moved, seconded by Councillor Adamson, for adoption.  Proposal No. 243, 
2022 was adopted on the following roll call vote; viz: 
 
25 YEAS: Adamson, Annee, Bain, Barth, Boots, Brown, Carlino, Dilk, Evans- E, Evan s-J, 
Graves, Gray, Hart, Jackson, Jones, Larrison, Lewis, Mascari, McCormick, Mowery, Oliver, 
Osili, Potts, Ray, Robinson 
0 NAYS:  
 
Proposal No. 243, 2022 was retitled FISCAL ORDINANCE NO. 10, 2022, and reads as follows: 
 
CITY-COUNTY FISCAL ORDINANCE NO. 10, 2022 
 
A FISCAL ORDINANCE amending the City-County Annual Budget for 2022 (City-County Fiscal Ordinance No. 22, 2021) 
by an additional appropriation totaling three million seven hundred sixty- two thousand two hundred sixty- three dollars 
($3,762,263) for the purposes of the City-County departments listed below.

=== 2022-08-08 minutes, page 21 of 35 ===
August 8, 2022 
 
 25  
 
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE 
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA:  
 
SECTION 1.  To provide for expenditures the necessity for which has arisen since its adoption, the City-County Annual 
Budget for 2022 is hereby amended by the character increases hereinafter stated for purposes of the following City/County 
departments. 
 
SECTION 2.  The Marion County Coroner requests additional appropriations totaling one million four hundred thirty -
eight thousand two hundred fifty-seven dollars ($1,438,257) in the County State Grant fund  in characters one, two, and 
three for research personnel, additional deputy coroners, and support staff, additional supplies, and contracts for trauma 
services of those impacted by overdose: 
 
FUND CHAR 1 CHAR 2 CHAR 3 CHAR 4 CHAR 5 TOTAL 
State Grant Fund - 
County 283,357 154,500 1,000,400   1,438,257 
 
SECTION 3.  The Department of Metropolitan Development requests additional appropriations totaling one million one 
hundred sixty-nine thousand and fifty-four dollars ($1,169,054) in the City State Grant fund in character three to support 
additional development of recovery housing units: 
 
FUND CHAR 1 CHAR 2 CHAR 3 CHAR 4 CHAR 5 TOTAL 
State Grant Fund - 
City   1,169,054   1,169,054 
 
SECTION 4.  The Office of Public Health and Safety  requests additional appropriations totaling eight hundred eight 
thousand nine hundred fifty-two dollars ($808,952) in the City State Grant fund in characters one, two, and three for 
additional personnel, overdose reversal supplies, and contracts to partner with community organizations to provide 
support for those experiencing substance use and related issues: 
 
FUND CHAR 1 CHAR 2 CHAR 3 CHAR 4 CHAR 5 TOTAL 
State Grant Fund - 
City 84,452 74,500 650,000   808,952 
 
SECTION 5.  The Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department requests additional appropriations totaling one hundred 
seventy-three thousand dollars ($173,000) in the City State Grant fund in character two for overdose reversal supplies: 
 
FUND CHAR 1 CHAR 2 CHAR 3 CHAR 4 CHAR 5 TOTAL 
State Grant Fund - 
City  173,000    173,000 
 
SECTION 6.  The Indianapolis Fire Department requests additional appropriations totaling one hundred seventy-three 
thousand dollars ($173,000) in the City State Grant fund in character two for overdose reversal supplies: 
 
FUND CHAR 1 CHAR 2 CHAR 3 CHAR 4 CHAR 5 TOTAL 
State Grant Fund - 
City  173,000    173,000 
 
SECTION 7.  In support of the additional appropriations provided in Sections 2 through 6, additional revenues totaling three 
million seven hundred sixty-two thousand two hundred sixty-three dollars ($3,762,263) will be received and deposited in 
the City State Grant Fund. 
 
SECTION 8.  In support of the additional appropriations provided in Section 2, of the amount received and deposited in the 
City State grant fund pursuant to Section 7, revenues totaling one million four hundred thirty-eight thousand two hundred 
and fifty-seven dollars will be transferred to the County State Grant Fund. 
 
SECTION 9.  Except to the extent of matching funds, if any, approved in this ordinance, the council does not intend to 
use the revenues from any local tax regardless of source to supplement or extend the appropriation for the agencies or 
projects authorized by this ordinance. The supervisor of the agency or project, or both, and the controller are directed to 
notify in writing the city-county council immediately upon receipt of any information that the agency or project is, or 
may be, reduced or eliminated.

=== 2022-08-08 minutes, page 22 of 35 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 26 
 
SECTION 10.  Upon approval of this and other pending proposals, the following unappropriated fund balances are projected 
to remain at the end of 2022: 
 
Fund 2021 Year-End Balance Projected 2022 Year-End Balance 
State Grant Fund - City $0 $0 
State Grant Fund - County $0 $0 
 
SECTION 11.  This ordinance shall be in full force and effect upon adoption and compliance with IC 36-3-4-14.  
 
PROPOSAL NO. 246, 2022.  Councillor Oliver reported that the Parks and Recreation Committee 
heard Proposal No. 246, 2022 on July 14, 2022.  The proposal, sponsored by Councillor Oliver, 
approves an additional appropriation of $1,080,000 in the 2022 Budget of the Department of Parks 
and Recreation (Parks General Fund) to finance increased capital project costs.  By a 6-0 vote, the 
committee reported the proposal to the full Council with the recommendation that it do pass.   
 
The President called for public testimony at 9:14  p.m.  There being no one present to testify,  
Councillor Oliver moved, seconded by Councillor Adamson, for adoption.  Proposal No. 246, 2022 
was adopted on the following roll call vote; viz: 
 
25 YEAS: Adamson, Annee, Bain, Barth, Boots, Brown, Carlino, Dilk, Evans- E, Evans -J, 
Graves, Gray, Hart, Jackson, Jones, Larrison, Lewis, Mascari, McCormick, Mowery, Oliver, 
Osili, Potts, Ray, Robinson 
0 NAYS:  
 
Proposal No. 246, 2022 was retitled FISCAL ORDINANCE NO. 11, 2022, and reads as follows: 
 
CITY-COUNTY FISCAL ORDINANCE NO. 11, 2022 
 
A FISCAL ORDINANCE amending the City-County Annual Budget for 2022 (City-County Fiscal Ordinance No. 22, 2021) 
by an additional appropriation of one million eighty thousand dollars ($1,080,000) for the purposes of the Department of 
Parks and Recreation. 
 
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE  
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA:  
 
SECTION 1.   To provide for expenditures the necessity for which has arisen since its adoption, the City-County Annual 
Budget for 2022 is hereby amended by the character increases hereinafter stated for purposes of the Department of Parks 
and Recreation. 
 
SECTION 2.  The Department of Parks and Recreation requests an additional appropriation of one million eighty thousand 
dollars ($1,080,000) in character four of the Parks General fund for the purposes of  financing increased capital project 
costs: 
 
FUND CHAR 1 CHAR 2 CHAR 3 CHAR 4 CHAR 5 TOTAL 
Parks General fund     1,080,000  1,080,000 
 
SECTION 3.  Upon approval of this and other pending proposals, the following unappropriated fund balances are projected 
to remain at the end of 2022: 
 
Fund 2021 Year-End Balance Projected 2022 Year-End Balance 
Parks General Fund $3,416,384 $2,232,367 
 
SECTION 4.  This ordinance shall be in full force and effect upon adoption and compliance with IC 36-3-4-14.

=== 2022-08-08 minutes, page 23 of 35 ===
August 8, 2022 
 
 27  
SPECIAL ORDERS - FINAL ADOPTION 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 241, 2022.  Councillor Lewis reported that the Metropolitan and Economic 
Development Committee heard Proposal No. 241, 2022 on July 18, 2022.  The proposal, sponsored 
by Councillor Jones, amends Article VII of the Code regarding payments in lieu of taxes (PILOTs) 
by authorizing the director of the department of metropolitan development to enter into PILOT 
agreements under IC 6-1.1-10.16.7 and amends Sec. 231-703 to remove the 30-year limitation of 
the term of PILOT agreements .  By a 13-0 vote, the committee reported the proposal to the full 
Council with the recommendation that it do pass.   
 
Councillor E. Evans asked if PILOTs are standardly 30-year agreements and if their path routinely 
requires Council approval.  Rusty Carr, deputy director, Department of Metropolitan Development 
(DMD), said that PILOTs are a tool used in affordable housing roundtable discussions, and in order 
to pr ioritize long -term affordability, PILO Ts can now, with th e passage of this proposal, be 
extended longer than 30 years. He said that PILOTs can come along two paths, one through DMD 
and the other through the Council, which is laid out in statute.  This proposal would make the 
requirements for both of these paths more consistent.   
 
Councillor Lewis moved, seconded by Councillor Adamson, for adoption.  Proposal No. 241, 2022 
was adopted on the following roll call vote; viz: 
 
25 YEAS: Adamson, Annee, Bain, Barth, Boots, Brown, Carlino, Dilk, Evans- E, Evans -J, 
Graves, Gray, Hart, Jackson, Jones, Larrison, Lewis, Mascari, McCormick, Mow ery, Oliver, 
Osili, Potts, Ray, Robinson 
0 NAYS:  
 
Proposal No. 241, 2022 was retitled GENERAL ORDINANCE NO. 37, 2022, and reads as follows: 
 
CITY-COUNTY GENERAL ORDINANCE NO. 37, 2022 
 
PROPOSAL FOR A GENERAL ORDINANCE to amend Article VII of the Revised Code of the Consolidated City and 
County regarding PILOT Agreements.  
 
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE 
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA: 
 
SECTION 1.  Article VII. – PAYMENTS IN LIEU OF TAXES of the “Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County,” 
regarding PILOT Agreements, hereby is amended by the addition of the language that is underscored, to read as follows: 
 
Sec.231-706. – PILOT Agreements pursuant to IC 6-1.1-10-16.7. 
 
Subject to the adoption of a resolution as required by IC 6 -1.1-10-16.7(b)(2), the director may enter into a PILOT 
agreement with a property owner pursuant to IC 6-1.1-10-16.7 subject to all terms of Section 231-703.   
 
SECTION 2.  Chapter 231-703 of the "Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County," regarding PILOT Agreements, 
hereby is amended by the deletion of the language that is stricken-through, to read as follows: 
 
Sec.231-703. – PILOT Agreements. 
 
The director may enter into a PILOT agreement with a property owner. 
 
(a) The PILOT agreement must provide for the following: 
 
(1) The annual amount of the PILOT. 
 
(2) The commencement date of the PILOT.

=== 2022-08-08 minutes, page 24 of 35 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 28 
(3) The term of the PILOT agreement, which term shall be for such period of time as determined by the 
director or thirty (30) years, whichever is less. 
 
(4) That the PILOT shall be treated in the same manner as property taxes for purposes of all procedural and 
substantive provisions of law and that, if unpaid, the PILOT shall accrue all penalties, interest, etc., 
applicable to unpaid property taxes. 
 
(5) That the PILOT is payable to the Treasurer in two (2) equal installments due and payable on or before 
May 10 and November 10 of each successive calendar year. 
 
(6) The property owner must file and receive a property tax exemption on the property. 
 
(7) That, if applicable, the property owner shall comply with chapter 582 “protection of tenant’s rights” and 
chapter 851 “Indianapolis Landlord Registration Program” of the Code. 
 
(8) That the property owner must enter into a community benefits agreement. 
 
(b) The PILOT agreement may contain a provision directing the Marion County Treasurer to deposit all or a portion of 
the PILOT: (1) in the  housing trust fund; or (2) if the property is located in a tax increment financing district, in a fund 
established for that district. 
 
(c) The PILOT agreement may contain such additional terms and conditions as director deems necessary or advisable. 
 
SECTION 3.  The expressed or implied repeal or amendment by this ordinance of any other ordinance or part of any other 
ordinance does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date 
of this ordinance.  Those rights, liabilities, and proceedings are continued, and penalties shall be imposed and enforced under 
the repealed or amended ordinance as if this ordinance had not been adopted. 
 
SECTION 4.  Should any provision (section, paragraph, sentence, clause, or any other portion) of this ordinance be declared 
by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, the remaining provision or provisions shall not be affected, 
if and only if such remaining provisions can, without the invalid provision or provisions, be given the effect intended by the 
Council in adopting this ordinance.  To this end the provisions of this ordinance are severable. 
 
SECTION 5.  This ordinance shall be in effect from and after its passage by the Council and compliance with Ind. Code § 36-
3-4-14. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 244, 2022.  Councillor Mascari reported that the Administration and Finance 
Committee heard Proposal No. 244, 2022 on July 26, 2022.  The pr oposal, sponsored by 
Councillors Osili and Mascari, authorizes the issuance of one or more series of City of Indianapolis, 
Indiana Economic Development Tax Increment Revenue Refunding Bonds in an amount not to 
exceed $88,000,000 to refund the outstanding 2013F and 2014A TIF Bonds.  By a 12- 0 vote, the 
committee reported the proposal to the full Council with the recommendation that it do pass.  
Councillor Mascari moved, seconded by Councillor Adamson, for adoption.  Proposal No. 24 4, 
2022 was adopted on the following roll call vote; viz: 
 
25 YEAS: Adamson, Annee, Bain, Barth, Boots, Brown, Carlino, Dilk, Evans- E, Evans -J, 
Graves, Gray, Hart, Jackson, Jones, Larrison, Lewis, Mascari, McCormick, Mowery, Oliver, 
Osili, Potts, Ray, Robinson 
0 NAYS:  
 
Proposal No. 244, 2022 was retitled SPECIAL ORDINANCE NO. 9, 2022, and reads as follows: 
 
CITY-COUNTY SPECIAL ORDINANCE NO. 9, 2022 
 
A SPECIAL ORDINANCE authorizing the City of Indianapolis to issue one or more series of its City of Indianapolis, 
Indiana Economic Development Tax Increment Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series 2022 (with such further series or other 
designation as determined t o be necessary, desirable or appropriate), in a maximum aggregate principal amount not to 
exceed Eighty-Eight Million Dollars ($88,000,000) (the “Bonds”) and approving and authorizing other actions in respect 
thereto.

=== 2022-08-08 minutes, page 25 of 35 ===
August 8, 2022 
 
 29  
 
WHEREAS, Indiana Code 36-7-11.9 and 12 (collectively, the “Act”) declares that the financing and refinancing of 
economic development facilities constitutes a public purpose; and 
 
WHEREAS, pursuant to the Act, the City of Indianapolis, Indiana (the “City”) is authorized to issue revenue bonds 
and lend the proceeds thereof to a developer or a user for the purpose of financing, reimbursing or refinancing the costs 
of acquisition, construction, renovation, installation and equipping of economic development facilities in order to foster 
diversification of economic development and creation or retention of opportunities for gainful employment in or near the 
City; and 
 
WHEREAS, pursuant to Special Ordinance No. 6, 2012, adopted by the City-County Council of the City of 
Indianapolis and of Marion County, Indiana (the “City -County Council”) on October 15, 2012, and a Trust Indenture, 
dated as of May 1, 2013 (the “2013A Indenture”), between the City and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, 
N.A., as trustee (the “Trustee”), the City previously issued its Economic Development Tax Increment Revenue Bonds, 
Series 2013A (AUL/OneAmerica Garage Project) (the “2013A Bonds”), dated June 6, 2013, in the original aggregate 
principal amount of $14,270,000, currently outstanding in the aggregate principal amount of $14,270,000 and with a final 
maturity date of February 1, 2030, for the principal purpose of prepaying the City’s Economic Development Tax 
Increment Revenue Bond Anticipation Notes, Series 2012A (AUL/OneAmerica Garage Project) which financed the 
acquisition, demolition, constructing, improvement or equipping of one or more economic development facilities in, or 
physically connected to the Consolidated Redevelopment Allocation Area, including all or any portion of:  (1) the 
acquisition, design, construction, renovation, improvement and equipping of a new five -story parking garage facility, 
containing approximately 1,020-spaces, which garage facility is related to a mixed-use development project in a portion 
of the downtown area of the City; (2) all acquisit ion, construction, demolition, renovation, improvement and equipping 
projects related to the projects described in clause (1); and (3) any costs related thereto (clauses (1) through and including 
(3), collectively, the “AUL/OneAmerica Garage Project”); and 
 
WHEREAS, pursuant to Special Ordinance No. 9, 2010, adopted by the City-County Council on September 20, 
2010, and a Trust Indenture, dated as of May 1, 2013 (the “2013B Indenture” and together with the 2013A Indenture, the 
“2013 Indentures”), between the  City and the Trustee, the City previously issued its Economic Development Tax 
Increment Revenue Bonds, Series 2013B (Fire Station Completion Project) (the “2013B Bonds” and together with the 
2013A Bonds, the “2013 Bonds”), dated June 6, 2013, in the original aggregate principal amount of $1,865,000, currently 
outstanding in the aggregate principal amount of $1,865,000 and with a final maturity date of February 1, 2030, for the 
purpose of financing all or a portion of the construction and equipping of a new  fire station, in or physically connected 
to the Consolidated Redevelopment Allocation Area, including all or any portion of:  (1) the acquisition, construction, 
demolition, renovation, improvement and equipping costs related to the fire station project; a nd (2) any costs related 
thereto (collectively, the “Fire Station Completion Project”); and 
 
WHEREAS, pursuant to General Resolution No. 6, 2013, adopted by the City-County Council on March 25, 2013, 
the City previously issued its Redevelopment District Subordinate Tax Increment Revenue Refunding Bonds of 2013 
(the “2013 District Refunding Bonds”), dated June  6, 2013, in the original aggregate principal amount of $24,970,000, 
currently outstanding in the aggregate principal amount of $21,930,000 and with a final maturity date of February 1, 
2029, for the purpose of providing funds to:  (i) refund all of the City of Indianapolis Redevelopment District Subordinate 
Tax Increment Revenue Refunding Bonds of 2002, Series B; (ii) fund certain debt service reserve funds applicable to the 
2013 District Refunding Bonds; and (iii) pay the costs of issuance and other costs incurred in connection with the issuance 
of the 2013 District Refunding Bonds (collectively, the “2013 Subordinate Refunding”); and 
 
WHEREAS, pursuant to General Resolution No. 9, 2010, adopted by the City-County Council on April 22, 2013, 
the City previously issued its Redevelopment District Subordinate Tax Increment Revenue Bonds of 2013 (16 Tech 
Project) (the “2013 District N ew Money Bonds” and together with the 2013 District Refunding Bonds, the “2013 
Subordinate Bonds”), dated June 6, 2013, in the original aggregate principal amount of $3,915,000, currently outstanding 
in the aggregate principal amount of $3,915,000 and with a final maturity date of February 1, 2030, for the purpose of 
providing funds to:  (i) pay the costs of certain property acquisition and local public infrastructure improvements, which 
are part of the 16 Tech Project; (ii) The Indianapolis Local Public Im provement Bond Bank (the “Bond Bank”) to fund 
certain debt service reserve funds applicable to the 2013 District New Money Bonds; and (iii)  pay the costs of issuance 
and other costs incurred in connection with the issuance of the 2013 District New Money Bonds (collectively, the “2013 
New Money Project” and together with the AUL/OneAmerica Garage Project, the Fire Station Completion Project, and 
the 2013 Subordinate Refunding, the “2013 Projects”); and 
 
WHEREAS, pursuant to Special Ordinance No. 3, 2013, adopted by the City-County Council on July 29, 2013, and 
a Trust Indenture, dated as of September 1, 2014 (the “2014A Indenture” and together with the 2013 Indentures, the 
“Prior Indentures”), between the City and the Trustee, the City previously issued its Economic Development Tax 
Increment Revenue Bonds, Series 2014A (Mass Avenue Project) (the “2014A Bonds”), dated September 3, 2014, in the

=== 2022-08-08 minutes, page 26 of 35 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 30 
original aggregate principal amount of $27,320,000, currently outstanding in the aggregate principal amount of 
$27,320,000 and with a final maturity date of February 1, 2031, for the purpose of financing all or a portion of certain 
projects, additions or improvements within the City, including all or any portion of:  (a) the acquisition of the property 
upon which the then existing Indianapolis Fire Department Headquarters, Indianapolis Fire Station Number 7 and the 
Firefighters Credit Union were located, and the construction, renovation, improvement and equipping thereon of a new 
mixed-use development project; (b) the acqui sition of the real property upon which the headquarters of the American 
Red Cross of Greater Indianapolis is located, and the relocation, construction, renovation, improvement and equipping 
thereon of facilities for all or a portion of the:  (i) IFD Headqu arters and (ii) Fire Station  7, as well as substantial 
infrastructure improvements including but not limited to necessary street relocation and reconstruction and/or utility 
relocation and expansion; (c) the acquisition of certain real property along Meridian Street and/or the relocation, 
construction, renovation, improvement and equipping of the headquarters for the Red Cross; and (d) all acquisition, 
construction, demolition, renovation, improvement and equipping projects related to the projects described in clauses (a) 
through and including (c), together with any costs related thereto (clauses (a) through and including (d), collectively the 
“Mass. Ave. Economic Development Project”); and 
 
WHEREAS, pursuant to Special Ordinance No. 1, 2014, adopted by the City-County Council on March 17, 2014, 
and the 2014A Indenture, the City issued its Economic Development Tax Increment Revenue Bonds, Series 2014C 
(Market Square Arena Redevelopment Project) (the “2014C Bonds”), dated September 3, 2014, in the original aggregate 
principal amount of $17,145,000, currently outstanding in the aggregate principal amount of $9,700,000 and with a final 
maturity date of February 1, 2029, for the purpose of financing all or a portion of certain projects, additions or 
improvements w ithin the City, including all or any portion of:  (a) the acquisition, design, construction, renovation, 
improvement and equipping of a 28-story mixed-use development facility, consisting of approximately 300 luxury 
apartments, approximately 43,000 square feet of lower level retail space, and a parking garage facility containing 
approximately 550 spaces; (b) all acquisition, construction, demolition, renovation, improvement and equipping projects 
related to the projects described in clauses (a); and (c) any  costs related thereto (clauses (a) through and including (c) 
collectively, the “MSA Redevelopment Project”); and 
 
WHEREAS, pursuant to Special Ordinance No. 2, 2014, adopted by the City-County Council on June 2, 2014, and 
the 2014A Indenture, the City issued its Economic Development Tax Increment Revenue Bonds, Series 2014D (Pulliam 
Square and Millikan -on-Mass Projects) (the “2014D Bonds” and together with the 2013 Bonds, the 2013 Subordinate 
Bonds, the 2014A Bonds, and the 2014C Bonds, the “Prior Bonds”), dated September 3, 2014, in the original aggregate 
principal amount of $3,320,000, currently outstanding in the aggregate principal amount of $3,320,000 and with a final 
maturity date of February 1, 2029, for the purpose of financing all or a portion of c ertain projects, additions or 
improvements within the City, including all or any portion of: (a) certain local public infrastructure improvements to an 
area of the City generally located along the 500 block of Massachusetts Avenue, east of the intersection of Massachusetts 
Avenue and Michigan Street and west of, and immediately adjacent to, the existing Barton Tower site, including (i) the 
acquisition, design, construction, renovation and/or equipping of a new multi -story mixed- use development facility, 
consisting of approximately 64 apartment units and approximately 15,000 square feet of ground-level retain space, and 
(ii) the design, construction, equipping and/or furnishing of a new public plaza area to be located between the new mixed-
use development facility and the existing Barton Tower site; (b) all acquisition, construction, demolition, renovation, 
improvement, excavation, utility relocation and/or equipping projects related to the projects described in clause (a), 
including, but not limited to certain streetscape and landscape projects and improvements; and (c) any costs related thereto 
(clauses (a) through and including (c), collectively, the “Millikan-on-Mass Project” and together with the 2013 Projects, 
the MSA Redevelopment Project, and the Mass. Ave. Economic Development Project, the “Prior Projects”); and 
 
WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 30 of the Act, if the City-County Council finds that a refunding of outstanding 
bonds issued under the Act would be of benefit to the health and general welfare of the City and would comply with the 
Act, the City -County Council may authorize the issuance of refunding bonds in accordance with the Act and Indiana 
Code 5-1-5 to refund those outstanding obligations; and 
 
WHEREAS, in light of currently prevailing market i nterest rates and conditions the City -County Council has 
determined issue one or more series of its taxable or tax -exempt Economic Development Tax Increment Revenue 
Refunding Bonds, Series 2022 (with such further series or other designation as determined t o be necessary, desirable or 
appropriate) (collectively, the “Bonds”), in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed Eighty-Eight Million Dollars 
($88,000,000) under the Act for the purpose of refunding all or any portion of the outstanding Prior Bonds, f unding a 
debt service reserve securing the Bonds; if necessary, and paying all incidental expenses incurred in connection therewith 
and paying the costs of delivering and issuing the Bonds; and 
 
WHEREAS, the Prior Projects are located (i) in the downtown a rea of the City and (ii) in, or physically connected 
to, the Consolidated Redevelopment Project Allocation Area (the “Consolidated Allocation Area”) previously created by 
the Metropolitan Development Commission of Marion County, acting as the Redevelopment  Commission of the City 
(the “Redevelopment Commission”); and

=== 2022-08-08 minutes, page 27 of 35 ===
August 8, 2022 
 
 31  
 
WHEREAS, pursuant to and in accordance with the Act, the City desires to provide funds necessary to refund the 
Prior Bonds by issuing the Bonds; and 
 
WHEREAS, the Act provides that such bonds may be secured by a trust indenture between an issuer and a corporate 
trustee; and 
 
WHEREAS, the City intends to issue the Bonds consistent with the terms of this Ordinance and pursuant to the 
respective Prior Indenture, as supplemented and amended by a Sup plemental Trust Indenture to the respective Prior 
Indenture, to be dated the first day of the month in which the Bonds are sold or delivered (or such other date as the officers 
of the City may hereafter approve) (the “Supplemental Indenture” and, together with the respective Prior Indenture, the 
“Indenture”), each by and between the City and the Trustee, in order to obtain funds to lend to the City for the purpose 
of refinancing the Prior Projects in accordance with the terms of one or more Qualified Entity  Purchase Agreements, 
each to be dated the first day of the month in which the Bonds are sold or delivered (or such other date as the officers of 
the City may hereafter approve) (collectively, the “QE Purchase Agreements”), each by and between the City and  the 
Bond Bank with respect to Bonds and the respective Prior Project; and 
 
WHEREAS, pursuant to the QE Purchase Agreements and the Bonds , the City will make certain representations, 
warranties and commitments with respect to the respective Prior Projects  and will agree to make payments sufficient to 
pay all principal of, premiums, if any, and interest on the Bonds as the same becomes due and payable, together with 
administrative expenses in connection with the Bonds; and 
 
WHEREAS, no member of the City -County Council has any pecuniary interest in any employment, financing 
agreement or other contract made under the provisions of the Act and related to the Bonds authorized herein, which 
pecuniary interest has not been fully disclosed  to the City-County Council and no such member has voted on any such 
matter, all in accordance with the provisions of Indiana Code 36-7-12-16; now, therefore: 
 
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE 
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA: 
 
SECTION 1.  It is hereby found, determined, ratified and confirmed that the refinancing of the economic development 
facilities referred to in the respective Indenture and the respective QE Purchase Agreement, as applicable (collectively, 
the “Financing Documents”) consisting of the Prior Projects, the issuance and sale of the Bonds, for the purpose of 
refunding the Prior Bonds, thereby refinancing the Prior Projects:  (i)  will result in the diversification of industry, the 
creation or retention of business opportunities and the creation or retention of opportunities for gainful employment 
within the jurisdiction of the City, (ii) will serve a public purpose, and will be of benefit to the health and general welfare 
of the City, (iii)  complies with the purposes and provisions of the Act and it is in the public interest that the City take 
such lawful action as determined to be necessary or desirable to encourage the diversification of industry, the creation or 
retention of business opportunitie s, and the creation or retention of opportunities for gainful employment within the 
jurisdiction of the City, and (iv)  will not have a material adverse competitive effect on any similar facilities already 
constructed or operating in or near Marion County, Indiana. 
 
SECTION 2.  The forms of the Financing Documents presented herewith are hereby approved and all such documents 
shall be kept on file by the Clerk of the City-County Council (the “Clerk”) or the Controller of the City (the “Controller”).  
In compliance with Indiana Code 36-1 -5-4, two (2) copies of the Financing Documents are on file in the office of the 
Clerk for public inspection. 
 
SECTION 3.  The City is authorized to issue the Bonds in one or more series, any series of which may be taxable or tax-
exempt for federal income tax purposes, in the maximum aggregate principal amount not to exceed Eighty-Eight Million 
Dollars ($88,000,000), with a final maturity date no later than February 1, 2031 and with a maximum interest rate not to 
exceed six and o ne-half percent (6.50%) per annum, for the purpose of procuring funds to:  (a) effect a current and/or 
taxable advance refunding of the Prior Bonds as authorized herein, thereby refinancing all or any portion of the Prior 
Projects, (b) fund a debt service reserve fund (including, if determined to be advantageous by the Controller, purchasing 
a debt service reserve fund surety policy), and (c) pay all incidental expenses on account of the issuance of the Bonds 
and acquiring any credit enhancement with respect thereto (if deemed necessary or advantageous as determined by the 
Controller).  The Bonds shall be issued in fully registered form in denominations of $5,000 and any integral multiple in 
excess thereof or as otherwise provided in the Indentures, or, upon  the advice of bond counsel, denominations of 
$100,000, plus integral multiples of $1 in excess thereof.  The Bonds may be subject to redemption at such times and 
upon such terms as determined by the Controller at the time of sale of the Bonds.  The Bonds shall be special and limited 
obligations of the City, payable as to principal and interest solely from the trust estate created and established under the 
applicable Indenture, which includes:  (i) incremental property taxes derived from the Consolidated Allocation Area, and 
(ii) funds on deposit, if any, in a debt service reserve fund (but only to the extent revenues identified in clauses (i) are

=== 2022-08-08 minutes, page 28 of 35 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 32 
insufficient for such purpose), and upon such terms and conditions as otherwise provided in the Financing Docume nts 
and this Ordinance.  The Bonds shall never constitute a general obligation of, an indebtedness of, or charge against the 
general credit of the City. 
 
SECTION 4.  The Mayor and the Controller are authorized and directed to sell such Bonds to the purchaser or purchasers 
thereof at a price not less than 98.5% of the aggregate principal amount thereof plus accrued interest, if any, at a rate of 
interest not to exceed six and one -half percent (6.50%) per annum, and with a final maturity no later than Februar y 1, 
2031.  A bond purchase agreement(s), bond placement agreement(s), forward -delivery purchase agreement(s) or a 
qualified entity purchase agreement(s) in form(s) and substance acceptable to the Mayor and the Controller (the “Purchase 
Agreement”), be, and hereby is, approved, and the Mayor and the Controller are hereby authorized and directed to execute 
and deliver the Purchase Agreement in form and substance acceptable to them and consistent with the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Ordinance.  If necessary or desirable in connection with the sale of the Bonds, the Mayor, the 
Controller and any other officer of the City are authorized to enter into a continuing disclosure undertaking agreement, 
in compliance with Rule 15c2-12 of the Securities and E xchange Commission, which will be in such a form as may be 
deemed necessary, appropriate or desirable by the Mayor, the Controller and any other officer of the City, with such to 
be conclusively evidenced by their execution thereof. 
 
SECTION 5.  The Mayor, the Clerk, the Controller and any other officer of the City are authorized and directed to execute 
the Financing Documents as may be required by the Act, such other documents approved or authorized herein and any 
other document which may be necessary, appropriate or desirable to consummate the transaction contemplated by the 
Financing Documents and this Ordinance, and their execution is hereby confirmed on behalf of the City.  The signatures 
of the Mayor, the Clerk, the Controller and any other officer of the City on the Bonds which may be necessary or desirable 
to consummate the transaction, and their execution is hereby confirmed on behalf of the City.  The signatures of the 
Mayor, the Clerk, the Controller and any other officer of the City on the Bonds may be facsimile signatures.  The Mayor, 
the Clerk, the Controller and any other officer of the City are authorized to arrange for the delivery of such Bonds to the 
purchaser, payment for which will be made in the manner set forth in the Financing Documents.  The Mayor, the Clerk, 
the Controller and any other officer of the City may, by their execution of the Financing Documents requiring their 
signatures and imprinting of their facsimile signatures thereon, approve any and all such changes therein and also in those 
Financing Documents which do not require the signature of the Mayor, the Clerk, the Controller or any other officer of 
the City without further approval of this City-County Council or the Economic Development Commission if such changes 
do not affect terms set forth in Sections 27(a)(1) through and including (a)(10) of the Act. 
 
SECTION 6.  The provisions of this Ordinance and the Financing Documents shall constitute a contract binding between 
the City and the holder or holders of the Bonds and after the issuance of said Bonds, this Ordinance shall not be repealed 
or amended in any respect which would adversely affect the right of such holder or holders so long as said Bonds or the 
interest thereon remains unpaid. 
 
SECTION 7.  Subject to the provisio ns of Sections 5 and 12 of this Ordinance, if necessary or desirable, a term sheet, 
forward-delivery agreement and/or a Preliminary Official Statement of the City relating to the Bonds (the “Preliminary 
Official Statement”), in a form acceptable to the May or, is hereby (a) authorized and approved, together with such 
changes in form and substance as may be deemed necessary or appropriate by the Mayor pursuant to Sections 5 and 12 
of this Ordinance, (b) authorized and approved, as the same may be appropriatel y confirmed, modified and amended 
pursuant hereto, for distribution as the Preliminary Official Statement of the City, (c) authorized to be deemed and 
determined by the Mayor on behalf of the City, as of its date, to constitute the “final” official stateme nt of the City with 
respect to the Bonds to be offered thereby, subject to completion as permitted by and otherwise pursuant to the provisions 
of Rule 15c2 -12 of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC Rule”), and (d) authorized and approved, 
consistent with the provisions of any bond purchase agreement and the SEC Rule, to be placed into final form and 
distributed and delivered to purchasers and potential purchasers of the Bonds offered thereby as the final official 
statement of the City, as of the date thereof, with respect to the Bonds (the “Official Statement”). 
 
SECTION 8.  Subject to the obligations of the City set forth in the respective QE Purchase Agreement and/or the tax 
representation certificate or other agreements of the City to be executed upon the issuance of the Bonds, the City will use 
its best efforts to restrict the use of the proceeds of any series of the Bonds, the interest on which is excludable from 
federal income tax purposes under Section 103 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended and in effect on the 
date of issuance thereof (the “Code”), in such a manner and to expectations at the time the Bonds are delivered to the 
purchasers thereof, so that they will not constitute “arbitrage bonds” under Section 148 of the Code  and the regulations 
promulgated thereunder, or to preserve any other desired tax status of any series of Bonds under the Code, if necessary.  
The Mayor, the Controller and the Clerk, or any other officer having responsibility with respect to the issuance of the 
Bonds, are authorized and directed, alone or in conjunction with any of the foregoing, or with any other officer, employee, 
consultant or agent of the City, to deliver a certificate for inclusion in the transcript of proceedings for the Bonds, setting 
forth the facts, estimates and circumstances and reasonable expectations pertaining to the use of the Bond proceeds as of 
the date of issuance thereof.

=== 2022-08-08 minutes, page 29 of 35 ===
August 8, 2022 
 
 33  
 
SECTION 9.  No recourse under or upon any obligation, covenant, acceptance or agreement contained in this ordinance, 
the Financing Documents or under any judgment obtained against the City, including without limitation its Economic 
Development Commission or Redevelopment Commission, or by the enforcement of any assessment or by any legal or 
equitable proceeding by virtue of any constitution or statute or otherwise, or under any circumstances, under or 
independent of this Ordinance or the Financing Documents, shall be had against any member, director, or officer or 
attorney, as such, past, present, or future, of the City, including without limitation its Economic Development 
Commission or its Redevelopment Commission, either directly or through the City, or otherwise, for the payment for or 
to the City or any receiver thereof or for or to any holder of the Bonds secured thereby, or otherwise, of any sum that 
may remain due and unpaid by the City upon any of such Bonds.  Any and all personal liability of every nature, whether 
at common law or in equity, or by statute or by constitution or otherwise, of any such member, director, or officer or 
attorney, as such, to respond by reason of any act or omission on his or her part or otherwise for, directly or indirectly, 
the payment for or to the City or any receiver thereof, or for or to any owner or holder of the Bonds, or otherwise, of any 
sum that may remain due and unpaid upon the Bonds hereby secured or any at them, shall be expressly waived and 
released as a condition of and consideration for the execution and delivery of the Financing Documents and the issuance, 
sale and delivery of the Bonds. 
 
SECTION 10.  The City will indemnify and hold its officials, attorneys, employees and agents, free and harmless from 
any loss, claim, damage, tax, penalty, liability, disbursement, litigation expenses, attorneys’ fees and expenses and other 
court costs arising out of, or in any way relating to, the execution or performance of the Financing Documents or other 
documents in connection therewith or any other cause whatsoever pertaining to the Prior Projects or the Bonds, including 
the issuance and sale of the Bonds or failure to issue or sell the Bonds or other actions taken under the Financing 
Documents or other documents in connection therewith or any other cause whatsoever pertaining to the Prior Projects or 
the Bonds arisi ng out of a failure or breach of performance by the City, all as further described in the respective QE 
Purchase Agreement, as applicable, except in any case as a result of the intentional misrepresentation or willful 
misconduct of the its agents. 
 
SECTION 11.  The City-County Council does hereby acknowledge that the Bond Bank may issue one or more series of 
bonds (the “Bond Bank Bonds”) for the purpose of providing funds to purchase the Bonds, and that the Bond Bank Bonds 
may be supported by one or more de bt service reserve funds that will be subject to the provisions of IC 5 -1.4-5-4 and 
Special Ordinance 67, 85 of this City-County Council. 
 
SECTION 12.  The Mayor, the Controller, the Clerk and any other officer of the City are each hereby authorized and 
directed to execute, attest and deliver such further instruments and documents and to take such further actions, in the 
name and on behalf of the City, as in their judgment shall be necessary, desirable or appropriate in order to fully 
consummate the transaction and to effect the purposes of this Ordinance, and any such instruments or documents 
heretofore executed and delivered and any such actions heretofore. 
 
SECTION 13.  This Ordinance shall be in full force and effect upon adoption and compliance with Indiana Code 36-3-
4-14. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 247, 2022.  Councillor Oliver reported that the Parks and Recreation Committee 
heard Proposal No. 247, 2022 on July 14, 2022.  The proposal, sponsored by Councillors Oliver 
and Jackson, establishes that the fiscal body is interested in the purchase of real estate at 10701 E. 
30th Street (Parcel 7045958), owned by Indiana Lan d Development Corporation for purposes of 
the Parks Department.  By a 6-0 vote, the committee reported the proposal to the full Council with 
the recommendation that it do pass.  Councillor Oliver moved, seconded by Councillor Adamson, 
for adoption.  Proposal No. 247, 2022 was adopted on the following roll call vote; viz: 
 
25 YEAS: Adamson, Annee, Bain, Barth, Boots, Brown, Carlino, Dilk, Evans -E, Evans -J, 
Graves, Gray, Hart, Jackson, Jones, Larrison, Lewis, Mascari, McCormick, Mowery, Oliver, 
Osili, Potts, Ray, Robinson 
0 NAYS:  
 
Proposal No. 247, 2022 was retitled GENERAL RESOLUTION NO. 20, 2022, and reads as 
follows:

=== 2022-08-08 minutes, page 30 of 35 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 34 
CITY-COUNTY GENERAL RESOLUTION NO. 20, 2022 
 
A PROPOSAL FOR A GENERAL RESOLUTION establishing that the City-County Council of the City of Indianapolis and 
Marion County, Indiana, is interested in making the purchase of specified land. 
 
WHEREAS, the City-County Council of the City of Indianapolis and Marion County, Indiana (“City-County Council”) 
is the fiscal body of the City of Indianapolis pursuant to IC 36-1-2-6; and 
 
WHEREAS, pursuant to IC 36-1-10.5-1, et seq., the City of Indianapolis may purchase land for a total price exceeding 
twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000) only after the City-County Council, as the fiscal body, passes a resolution to the effect 
that it is interested in making a purchase of specified land; and 
 
WHEREAS, the City of Indianapolis wishes to purchase real estate with a common address on the property record card 
of 10701 E. 30th St., Indianapolis, IN (parcel number 7045958) and depicted in Exhibit “A”, attached hereto and incorporated 
herein (“Real Estate”); and   
 
WHEREAS, the City-County Council, having considered the acquisition of the Real Estate and being duly advised, 
finds that the City-County Council has an interest in acquiring the Real Estate; now, therefore: 
 
BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE 
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA: 
 
SECTION 1.  The City-County Council hereby establishes that it has an interest in acquiring the Real Estate with a parcel 
number of 7045958 and a common address on the property record card of 10701 E. 30
th St., Indianapolis, IN  46235.   An 
aerial photo of this acquisition is depicted on Exhibit “A”.  
 
SECTION 2.  For purposes of Revised Code Sec. 151-66, the Real Estate is owned by Yung C. Choi.  
 
SECTION 3. This resolution shall be in effect from and after its passage by the Council and compliance with Indiana Code § 
36-3-4-14. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 248, 2022.  Councillor Oliver reported that the Parks and Recreation 
Committee heard Proposal No. 248, 2022 on July 14, 2022.  The proposal, sponsored by 
Councillors Oliver and Jackson, establishes that the fiscal body is interested in the purchase of 
real estate at 10710 E. 30th Street (Parcel 7000601), owned by Henry Brinkman for purposes of 
the Parks Department.  By a 6-0 vote, the committee reported the proposal to the full Council 
with the recommendation that it do pass.  Councillor Oliver moved, seconded by Councillor 
Adamson, for adoption.  Proposal No. 248, 2022 was adopted on the following roll call vote; viz: 
 
25 YEAS: Adamson, Annee, Bain, Barth, Boots, Brown, Carlino, Dilk, Evans -E, Evans -J, 
Graves, Gray, Hart, Jackson, Jones, Larrison, Lewis, Mascari, McCormick, Mowery, Oliver, 
Osili, Potts, Ray, Robinson 
0 NAYS:  
 
Proposal No. 248, 2022 was retitled GENERAL RESOLUTION NO. 21, 2022, and reads as 
follows: 
 
CITY-COUNTY GENERAL RESOLUTION NO. 21, 2022 
 
A PROPOSAL FOR A GENERAL RESOLUTION establishing that the City-County Council of the City of Indianapolis and 
Marion County, Indiana, is interested in making the purchase of specified land. 
 
WHEREAS, the City-County Council of the City of Indianapolis and Marion County, Indiana (“City-County Council”) 
is the fiscal body of the City of Indianapolis pursuant to IC 36-1-2-6; and 
 
WHEREAS, pursuant to IC 36-1-10.5-1, et seq., the City of Indianapolis may purchase land for a total price exceeding 
twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000) only after the City-County Council, as the fiscal body, passes a resolution to the effect 
that it is interested in making a purchase of specified land; and

=== 2022-08-08 minutes, page 31 of 35 ===
August 8, 2022 
 
 35  
WHEREAS, the City of Indianapolis wishes to purchase real estate with a common address on the property record card 
of 10710 E. 30th St., Indianapolis, IN (parcel number 7000601) and depicted in Exhibit “A”, attached hereto and incorporated 
herein (“Real Estate”); and   
 
WHEREAS, the City-County Council, having considered the acquisition of the Real Estate and being duly advised, 
finds that the City-County Council has an interest in acquiring the Real Estate; now, therefore: 
 
BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE 
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA: 
 
SECTION 1.  The City-County Council hereby establishes that it has an interest in acquiring the Real Estate with a parcel 
number of 7000601 and a common address on the property record card of 10710 E. 30th St., Indianapolis, IN  46235.   An 
aerial photo of this acquisition is depicted on Exhibit “A”.  
 
SECTION 2.  For purposes of Revised Code Sec. 151-66, the Real Estate is owned by Henry Brinkman.  
 
SECTION 3. This resolution shall be in effect from and after its passage by the Council and compliance with Indiana Code § 
36-3-4-14. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 249, 2022.  Councillor Oliver reported that the Parks and Recreation Committee 
heard Proposal No. 249, 2022 on July 14, 2022.  The proposal, sponsored by Councillors Oliver, 
Potts and McCormick, establishes that the fiscal body approves the lease of real estate owned by 
the city at 975 Burdsal Parkwa y (Parcel 1106986) to GroundWork Indy, Inc.  By a 6 -0 vote, the 
committee reported the proposal to the full Council with the recommendation that it do pass.   
 
Councillor Gray asked if this property is where the old fire station used to be.  Councillor Oliver 
responded in the affirmative. 
 
Councillor Oliver moved, seconded by Councillor Adamson, for adoption.  Proposal No. 249, 2022 
was adopted on the following roll call vote; viz: 
 
25 YEAS: Adamson, Annee, Bain, Barth, Boots, Brown, Carlino, Dilk, Evans -E, Evans -J, 
Graves, Gray, Hart, Jackson, Jones, Larrison, Lewis, Mascari, McCormick, Mowery, Oliver, 
Osili, Potts, Ray, Robinson 
0 NAYS:  
 
Proposal No. 249, 2022 was retitled GENERAL RESOLUTION NO. 22, 2022, and reads as 
follows: 
 
CITY-COUNTY GENERAL RESOLUTION NO. 22, 2022 
 
A PROPOSAL FOR A GENERAL RESOLUTION establishing that the City-County Council of the City of Indianapolis and 
Marion County, Indiana, approves the lease of specified land. 
 
WHEREAS, the City-County Council of the City of Indianapolis and Marion County, Indiana (“City-County Council”) 
is the fiscal body of the City of Indianapolis pursuant to IC 36-1-2-6; and 
 
WHEREAS, pursuant to IC 36-1-11-10, et seq., property owned by the City of Indianapolis may be leased for a term 
longer than three (3) years only after the City-County Council, as the fiscal body, passes a resolution to approve the lease; 
and 
 
WHEREAS, the City of Indianapolis wishes to lease to GroundWork Indy, Inc. real estate with a common address on 
the property record card of 975 Burdsal Pkwy., Indianapolis, IN (parcel number 1106986 ) and depicted in Exhibit “A”, 
attached hereto and incorporated herein (“Real Estate”); and   
 
WHEREAS, the City-County Council, having considered the lease of the Real Estate and being duly advised, finds 
that the City-County Council approves the lease of the Real Estate to GroundWork Indy; now, therefore:

=== 2022-08-08 minutes, page 32 of 35 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 36 
BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE 
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA: 
 
SECTION 1.  The City-County Council hereby approves the lease of the Real Estate with a parcel number of 1106986 and a 
common address on the property record card of 975 Burdsal Pkwy., Indianapolis, IN  46202.   An aerial photo of this 
acquisition is depicted on Exhibit “A”.  
 
SECTION 2.  For purposes of Revised Code Sec. 151-66, the Real Estate is owned by the City of Indianapolis, Department 
of Parks and Recreation.  
 
SECTION 3. This resolution shall be in effect from and after its passage by the Council and compliance with Indiana Code § 
36-3-4-14. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 252, 2022.  Councillor Adamson reported that the Public Works Committee 
heard Proposal No. 252, 2022 on July 21, 2022.  The proposal, sponsored by Councillor Osili, 
authorizes parking restrictions along the east side of Harding Street, from Alley 2475 North to a 
point 180 feet south (District 11).  By a 10-0 vote, the committee reported the proposal to the full 
Council with the recommendation that it do pass.  Councillor Adamson moved, seconded by 
Councillor Carlino, for adoption.  Proposal No. 252, 2022 was adopted on the following roll call 
vote; viz: 
 
25 YEAS: Adamson, Annee, Bain, Barth, Boots, Brown, Carlino, Dilk, Evans -E, Evans -J, 
Graves, Gray, Hart, Jackson, Jones, Larrison, Lewis, Mascari, McCormick, Mowery, Oliver, 
Osili, Potts, Ray, Robinson 
0 NAYS:  
 
Proposal No. 252, 2022 was retitled GENERAL ORDINANCE NO. 38, 2022, and reads as follows: 
 
CITY-COUNTY GENERAL ORDINANCE NO. 38, 2022 
 
PROPOSAL FOR A GENERAL ORDINANCE to amend the Revised Code to make various changes to Chapter 621, 
Parking, standing and stopping restricted. 
 
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE  
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA: 
 
SECTION 1. That the Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County, Indianapolis/Marion County, Indiana,  
specifically Sec. 621-121 (b), Parking prohibited at all times on certain streets, be, and the same is hereby amended by 
the addition of the following, to wit: 
 
Harding Street, on the east side, from Alley 2475 N, to a point 180 feet south of Alley 2475 N; 
 
SECTION 2. The expressed or implied repeal or amendment by this ordinance of any other ordinance or part of any other 
ordinance does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date 
of this ordinance. Those rights, liabilities, and proceedings are continued, and penalties shall be imposed and enforced 
under the repealed or amended ordinance as if this ordinance had not been adopted. 
 
SECTION 3. Should any provision (section, paragraph, sentence, clause, or any other portion) of this ordinance be 
declared by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, the remaining provision or provisions shall not be 
affected, if and only if such remaining provisions can, without the invalid provision or provisions, be given the effect 
intended by the Council in adopting this ordinance. To this end the provisions of this ordinance are severable. 
 
SECTION 4. This ordinance shall be in effect from and after its passage by the Council and compliance with Ind. Code § 
36-3-4-14. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 253, 2022.  Councillor Adamson reported that the Public Works Committee 
heard Proposal No. 253, 2022 on July 21, 2022.  The proposal, sponsored by Councillor Osili, 
authorizes residential permit parking at 1440 Milburn Street (District 11).  By a 10-0 vote, the

=== 2022-08-08 minutes, page 33 of 35 ===
August 8, 2022 
 
 37  
committee reported the proposal to the full Council with the recommendation that it do pass.  
Councillor Adamson moved, seconded by Councillor Carlino, for adoption.  Proposal No. 253, 
2022 was adopted on the following roll call vote; viz: 
 
25 YEAS: Adamson, Annee, Bain, Barth, Boots, Brown, Carlino, Dilk, Evans -E, Evans -J, 
Graves, Gray, Hart, Jackson, Jones, Larrison, Lewis, Mascari, McCormick, Mowery, Oliver, 
Osili, Potts, Ray, Robinson 
0 NAYS:  
 
Proposal No. 253, 2022 was retitled GENERAL ORDINANCE NO. 39, 2022, and reads as follows: 
 
CITY-COUNTY GENERAL ORDINANCE NO. 39, 2022 
 
PROPOSAL FOR A GENERAL ORDINANCE to amend the Revised Code to make various changes to Chapter  621, 
Parking, standing and stopping restricted. 
 
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE  
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA: 
 
SECTION 1.  That the Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County, Indianapolis/Marion County, Indiana, 
specifically Sec. 621-602 (a), Residential permit parking zones established, be, and the same is hereby amended by the 
addition of the following, to wit: 
 
Street Orientation From Centerline Boundary 
Milburn Street n/a 1440 
 
SECTION 2. The expressed or implied repeal or amendment by this ordinance of any other ordinance or part 
of any other 
ordinance does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date 
of this ordinance. Those rights, liabilities, and proceedings are continued, and penalties  shall be imposed and enforced 
under the repealed or amended ordinance as if this ordinance had not been adopted. 
 
SECTION 3.  Should any provision (section, paragraph, sentence, clause, or any other portion) of this ordinance be 
declared by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, the remaining provision or provisions shall not be 
affected, if and only if such remaining provisions can, without the invalid provision or provisions, be given the effect intended 
by the Council in adopting this ordinance. To this end the provisions of this ordinance are severable. 
 
SECTION 4. This ordinance shall be in effect from and after its passage by the Council and compliance with Ind. Code § 
36-3-4-14. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 254, 2022.  Councillor Adamson reported that the Public Works Committee 
heard Proposal No. 254, 2022 on July 21, 2022.  The proposal, sponsored by Councillor Mowery, 
authorizes a speed limit reduction to 25 miles per hour in the Bel Moore subdivision (District 25).  
By an 11-0 vote, the committee reported the proposal to the full Council with the recommendation 
that it do pass.  Councillor Adamson  moved, seconded by Councillor Mowery, for adoption.  
Proposal No. 254, 2022 was adopted on the following roll call vote; viz: 
 
25 YEAS: Adamson, Annee, Bain, Barth, Boots, Brown, Carlino, Dilk, Evans -E, Evans-J, 
Graves, Gray, Hart, Jackson, Jones, Larrison, Lewis, Mascari, McCormick, Mowery, Oliver, 
Osili, Potts, Ray, Robinson 
0 NAYS:  
 
Proposal No. 254, 2022 was retitled GENERAL ORDINANCE NO. 40, 2022, and reads as follows: 
 
CITY-COUNTY GENERAL ORDINANCE NO. 40, 2022 
 
PROPOSAL FOR A GENERAL ORDINANCE to amend the Revised Code to make various changes to Chapter 441, 
Traffic.

=== 2022-08-08 minutes, page 34 of 35 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 38 
 
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE  
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA: 
 
SECTION 1.  That the Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County, Indianapolis/Marion County, Indiana, 
specifically Sec. 441-323, Alteration of prima facie speed limits, be, and the same is hereby amended by the addition of 
the following, to wit: 
 
All local streets within Bel Moore platted subdivision, 25 mph. 
 
SECTION 2. The expressed or implied repeal or amendment by this ordinance of any other ordinance or part of any other 
ordinance does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date 
of this ordinance. Those rights, liabilities, and proceedings are continued, and penalties  shall be imposed and enforced 
under the repealed or amended ordinance as if this ordinance had not been adopted. 
 
SECTION 3.  Should any provision (section, paragraph, sentence, clause, or any other portion) of this ordinance be 
declared by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, the remaining provision or provisions shall not be 
affected, if and only if such remaining provisions can, without the invalid provision or provisions, be given the effect intended 
by the Council in adopting this ordinance. To this end the provisions of this ordinance are severable. 
 
SECTION 4. This ordinance shall be in effect from and after its passage by the Council and compliance with Ind. Code § 
36-3-4-14. 
 
ANNOUNCEMENTS AND ADJOURNMENT 
 
The President said that the docketed agenda for this meeting of the Council having been completed, 
the Chair would entertain motions for adjournment. 
 
Councillor Mowery stated that he had been asked to offer the following motion for adjournment 
by: 
 
 (1) All Councillors in memory of former Council President Rozelle Boyd; and 
 (2) Councillor Carlino in memory of Betty Bainbridge; and 
 (3) Councillor Osili in memory of Hertha Taylor, Chulo Asika and James Dixon; and 
 (4) Councillor Graves in memory of Lars Tate. 
 
Councillor Mowery moved the adjournment of this meeting of the Indianapolis City- County 
Council in recognition of and respect for the life and contributions of former Council President 
Rozelle Boyd. Betty Bainbridge, Hertha Taylor, Chulo Asika , James Dixon, and Lars Tate.  He 
respectfully asked the support of fellow Councillors.  He further requested that the motion be made 
a part of the permanent records of this body and that a letter bearing the Council seal and the 
signature of the President be sent to the families advising of this action. 
There being no further business, and upon motion duly made and seconded, the meeting adjourned 
at 9:27 p.m. 
We hereby certify that the above and foregoing is a full, true and complete record of the proceedings 
of the regular concurrent meetings of the City -Council of Indianapolis -Marion County, Indiana, 
and Indianapolis Police, Fire and Solid Waste Collection Special Service District Councils on the 
8th day of August , 2022.

=== 2022-08-08 minutes, page 35 of 35 ===
August 8, 2022 
 
 39  
In Witness Whereof, we have hereunto subscribed our signatures, caused the Seal of the City of 
Indianapolis to be affixed. 
 
 
 President 
ATTEST: 
 
(SEAL) Clerk of the Council
