=== 2024-11-04 minutes, page 1 of 33 ===
5 
 
 
 
MINUTES OF THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL 
AND 
SPECIAL SERVICE DISTRICT COUNCILS 
OF 
INDIANAPOLIS, MARION COUNTY, INDIANA 
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2024 
 
The City -County Council of Indianapolis, Marion County, Indiana and the Indianapolis Police 
Special Service District Council, Indianapolis Fire Special Service District Council and 
Indianapolis Solid Waste Collection Special Service District Council convened in regular 
concurrent sessions, in the Council Chamber of the City-County Building at 7:06 p.m. on Monday, 
November 4, 2024, with Councilor Osili presiding. 
 
Councilor Hart introduced Pastor Tim Lindsey, Public Servants’ Prayer , who led the opening 
prayer.  Councilor Hart then invited all to join him in the Pledge of Allegiance to the Flag. 
 
ROLL CALL 
 
The President instructed the Clerk to take the roll call and requested members to register their 
presence on the voting machine.  The roll call was as follows: 
 
25 YEAS: Allen, Annee, Bain, Barth, Boots, Brown-A, Brown-J, Cahill, Carlino, Delaney, Dilk, 
Evans, Gibson, Graves , Hart, Jones, Lewis, Mascari, McCormick, Mowery, Nielsen, Osili, 
Perkins, Roberts, Robinson 
0 ABSENT:   
 
A quorum of twenty-five members being present, the President called the meeting to order. 
 
INTRODUCTION OF GUESTS AND VISITORS 
 
President Osili welcomed and recognized members of the Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority, Inc.®  - 
Chi Chi Omega and Alpha Mu Omega chapters .  Councilor Perkins recognized members of Jack 
& Jill of America, Inc. - Indianapolis Chapter. 
 
OFFICIAL COMMUNICATIONS 
 
President Osili called for the reading of Official Communications.  The Clerk read the following: 
 
TO ALL MEMBERS OF THE CITY -COUNTY COUNCIL AND POLICE, FIRE AND SOLID WASTE COLLECTION 
SPECIAL SERVICE DISTRICT COUNCILS OF THE CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND MARION COUNTY, INDIANA 
 
Ladies And Gentlemen: 
 
You are hereby notified the REGULAR MEETINGS of the City-County Council and Police, Fire and Solid Waste Collection 
Special Service District Councils will be held in the City-County Building, in the Council Chambers, on Monday, November 
4, 2024, at 7:00 p.m., the purpose of such MEETINGS being to conduct any and all business that may properly come 
before regular meetings of the Councils. 
 
 Respectfully, 
 s/Vop Osili 
 President, City-County Council

=== 2024-11-04 minutes, page 2 of 33 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 
 
 
 
 
6 
October 7, 2023 
 
TO PRESIDENT OSILI AND MEMBERS OF THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL AND POLICE, FIRE AND SOLID WASTE 
COLLECTION SPECIAL SERVICE DISTRICT COUNCILS OF THE CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND MARION COUNTY, 
INDIANA: 
 
Ladies and Gentlemen: 
 
Pursuant to the laws of the State of Indiana, I caused to be published in the Court & Commercial Record  and in the 
Indianapolis Star on Friday, October 11, 2024 a copy of a Notice of Public Hearing on Proposal No. 322, 2024, said 
hearing to be held on Monday, October 21, 2024, at 5:30 p.m. in the Public Assembly Room of the City-County Building.   
 
 Respectfully, 
 s/Yulonda Winfield 
 Clerk of the City-County Council 
 
October 23, 2023 
 
TO PRESIDENT OSILI AND MEMBERS OF THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL AND POLICE, FIRE AND SOLID WASTE 
COLLECTION SPECIAL SERVICE DISTRICT COUNCILS OF THE CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND MARION COUNTY, 
INDIANA: 
 
Ladies and Gentlemen: 
 
Pursuant to the laws of the State of Indiana, I caused to be published in the Court & Commercial Record  and in the 
Indianapolis Star on Friday, November 1, 2024 a copy of a Legal Notice of General Ordinance No. 36, 2024 (Proposal 
No. 314, 2024).  
 
 Respectfully, 
 s/Yulonda Winfield 
 Clerk of the City-County Council 
 
October 15, 2024 
 
TO PRESIDENT OSILI AND MEMBERS OF THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL AND POLICE, FIRE AND SOLID WASTE 
COLLECTION SPECIAL SERVICE DISTRICT COUNCILS OF THE CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND MARION COUNTY, 
INDIANA: 
 
Ladies and Gentlemen: 
 
I have approved with my signature and delivered this day to the Clerk of the City-County Council, Yulonda Winfield, the 
following ordinance: 
 
FISCAL ORDINANCE NO. 6, 2024 – adopts the annual budget for the City of Indianapolis and Marion County for 2025 
 
POLICE SPECIAL SERVICE DISTRICT FISCAL ORDINANCE NO. 1, 2024 – approves the tax levy and rate for the 
Police Special Service District for 2025 
 
FIRE SPECIAL SERVICE DISTRICT FISCAL ORDINANCE NO. 1, 2024 – approves the tax levy and rate for the Fire 
Special Service District for 2025 
 
SOLID WASTE COLLECTION SPECIAL SERVICE DISTRICT FISCAL ORDINANCE NO. 1, 2024 – approves the tax 
levy and rate for the Solid Waste Collection Special Service District for 2025 
 
GENERAL ORDINANCE NO. 36, 2024 – amends Chapter 441, Article III, of the Revised Code of the Consolidated City 
of Indianapolis and Marion County to add a new Division 9 pertaining to illegal street activity 
 
SPECIAL ORDINANCE NO. 11, 2024 - amends a prior bond ordinance authorizing the issuance of Indiana, Economic 
Development Tax Increment Revenue Bonds in a maximum aggregate principal amount not to exceed $19,500,000 for 
Phase I, and $6,500,000 for Phase II, for the purpose of providing funds to pay a portion of the costs of the City Market 
Redevelopment Project, and approves and authorizes other actions in respect thereto 
 
SPECIAL ORDINANCE NO. 12, 2024 – proposes an ordinance of the Marion County Local Income Tax Council to: 1) 
modify the local income tax rate, 2) modify the allocation of the previously imposed expenditure rate, 3) determine how 
the revenue from the property tax relief rate shall be applied to provide property tax credits in subsequent years, and 4) 
to cast the vote of the Council on such ordinance 
 
GENERAL RESOLUTION NO. 42, 2024 – approves hourly and per diem pay increases for Marion County election 
workers 
 
 s/Joseph H. Hogsett, Mayor

=== 2024-11-04 minutes, page 3 of 33 ===
November 4, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7  
ADOPTION OF THE AGENDA 
 
The President proposed the adoption of the agenda as distributed.   
 
Councilor Hart moved, seconded by Councilor Bain, to remove Proposal No. 358, 2024 from the 
agenda this evening, as it is unnecessary due to the introduction of Proposal No. 357, 2024; and is 
an unenforceable resolution; and he does not believe a discussion is needed on the issue this 
evening.  PROPOSAL NO. 358, 2024.  The proposal, sponsored by Councilor J. Brown, supports 
the immediate implementation of the U.S.-backed ceasefire plan.   
 
Councilor J. Brown said that he wrote this resolution at the beginning of July,  and it has been 
waiting for three months to be heard and should be heard before Proposal No. 358, 2024.  Proposal 
No. 358, 2024 was removed from the agenda on the following roll call vote; viz: 
 
23 YEAS: Allen, Annee, Bain, Barth, Boots, Cahill, Carlino, Delaney, Dilk, Evans, Gibson, Graves, Hart, Jones, 
Lewis, Mascari, McCormick, Mowery, Nielsen, Osili, Perkins, Roberts, Robinson 
2 NAYS: Brown-A, Brown-J 
 
Without further objection, the agenda was adopted as amended. 
 
APPROVAL OF THE JOURNAL 
 
The President called for additions or corrections to the Journals of October 7 , 2024.  There being 
no additions or corrections, the minutes were approved as distributed. 
 
PRESENTATION OF PETITIONS, MEMORIALS, SPECIAL RESOLUTIONS, AND 
COUNCIL RESOLUTIONS 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 357, 2024.  The proposal, sponsored by Councilors Allen, Bain, Barth, Boots, 
Brown, A., Brown, J., Carlino, Delaney, Evans, Gibson, Graves, Jones, Lewis, Mascari, 
McCormick, Mowery, Nielsen, Osili, Perkins, Roberts and Robinson , calls on all residents of 
Indianapolis and Marion County to commit themselves to peaceful coexistence in the face of local, 
national, and international conflict .  Councilors read the proposals and presented copies of the 
document and Council pins to Dr. Lionel Rush and other  collaborators who helped to draft  the 
resolution.  Councilor J. Brown thanked all of the faith leaders who collaborated on this proposal, 
but due to what has happened in this room this even ing, he would like to be removed as a co-
sponsor.  Councilor Robinson moved, seconded by Councilor Carlino, for adoption.  Proposal No. 
357, 2024 was adopted on the following voice vote; viz: 
 
24 YEAS: Allen, Annee, Bain, Barth, Boots, Brown-A, Cahill, Carlino, Delaney, Dilk, Evans, Gibson, Graves, 
Hart, Jones, Lewis, Mascari, McCormick, Mowery, Nielsen, Osili, Perkins, Roberts, Robinson 
1 NAY: Brown-J 
 
Proposal No. 357, 2024 was retitled SPECIAL RESOLUTION NO. 22, 2024, and reads as follows: 
 
CITY-COUNTY SPECIAL RESOLUTION NO. 22, 2024  
  
A SPECIAL RESOLUTION calling on all residents of Indianapolis and Marion County to commit themselves to peaceful 
coexistence in the face of local, national, and international conflict.

=== 2024-11-04 minutes, page 4 of 33 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 
 
 
 
 
8 
WHEREAS, the United States is a diverse nation, founded on the bedrock of the ideal of pluralism, where residents 
of all backgrounds are called upon to energetically engage across even our deepest differences, not in isolation, but in 
collaboration and relationship to one another; and  
 
WHEREAS, the City -County Council of Indianapolis and Marion County (Council) seeks to create in Marion 
County a culture wherein individuals of every faith tradition, religion, cultural background, and ethnic identity are 
empowered to contribute peacefully to our civil and political discourse; and  
 
WHEREAS, the Council recognizes the limitation of its reach to influence global events, while its members, like all 
residents of this city and county, nonetheless, bear witness to the devastating impact of political and religious violence 
across the globe; and  
 
WHEREAS, it is recognized that this Council does exercise considerable influence within the boundaries of its 
jurisdiction and a respectable amount with its adjacent neighbors; and  
 
WHEREAS, the ability of peoples to coexist without employing violence to settle disagreements is essential in a 
society increasingly characterized by ethnic, religious, sectarian, economic, and political diversity; and  
 
WHEREAS, as elected leaders of the Council, we, along with faith leaders, recognize that the need for us to speak 
and act with mutual respect and dignity is at its greatest when our disagreements are at their deepest; and  
 
WHEREAS, faith leaders of the Indianapolis community stand with this Council tonight, united in the belief that 
making a shared commitment to peaceful coexistence within this city and county is the civic and moral duty of every 
resident of our city; now, therefore:  
  
BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE  
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA  
 
SECTION 1.  The Indianapolis/Marion County City-County Council condemns all hateful and violent speech or action 
in our community and around the world directed at members of any faith, race, ethnicity, gender identity, or orientation.  
 
SECTION 2.  The Council joins with faith leaders of the Indianapolis community to categorically reject anti -Islamic, 
anti-Semitic, Hinduphobic and any and all bias, racism, xenophobia, bigotry and marginalization in any form, while 
respecting freedom of speech within the boundaries of law and respectful civility.  
 
SECTION 3.  The Council further joins these faith leaders in their pledge to live in peaceful coexistence; to speak and 
act with mutual respect for one another, committing to respect the diversity of identities and voices that strengthen the 
values we all cherish even, or especially, when tensions and violence in our community or around the world may induce 
us to act otherwise; and to allow these commitments to be our message to a war-weary world.  
  
SECTION 4.  This resolution shall be in full force and effect upon adoption and compliance with IC 36-3-4-14.  
 
PROPOSAL NO. 363, 2024.  The proposal, sponsored by Councilor Osili , approves the schedule 
of regular council meetings for the year 2025.  President Osili stated that proposed Council dates 
have been distributed to all Council members and he called for a motion on the proposal.  Councilor 
McCormick stated that on the draft calendar an Election Day is shown, but there is no election next 
year, and that should be removed.  Councilor Gibson moved, seconded by Councilor Carlino, for 
adoption. Proposal No. 363, 2024 was adopted on the following unanimous voice vote; viz: 
 
24 YEAS: Allen, Annee, Bain, Barth, Boots, Brown-A, Cahill, Carlino, Delaney, Dilk, Evans, Gibson, Graves, 
Hart, Jones, Lewis, Mascari, McCormick, Mowery, Nielsen, Osili, Perkins, Roberts, Robinson 
1 NAY: Brown-J 
 
Proposal No. 363, 2024 was retitled COUNCIL RESOLUTION NO. 71, 2024, and reads as 
follows:

=== 2024-11-04 minutes, page 5 of 33 ===
November 4, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9  
CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL RESOLUTION NO. 71, 2024 
 
A PROPOSAL FOR A COUNCIL RESOLUTION approving a schedule of regular council meetings for the year 2025. 
 
BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE 
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA: 
 
SECTION 1. The City-County Council hereby approves the following schedule of regular meetings for the year 2025: 
 
 (1) Monday, January 6, 2025 (8) Monday, August 11, 2025 
 (2) Monday, February 3, 2025 (9) Monday, September 8, 2025 
 (3) Monday, March 3, 2025 (10) Monday, September 22, 2025 
 (4) Monday, April 7, 2025 (11) Monday, October 6, 2025 
 (5) Monday, May 5, 2025 (12) Monday, November 3, 2025 
 (6) Monday, June 9, 2025 (13) Monday, December 1, 2025 
 (7) Monday, July 7, 2025 
 
SECTION 2. This resolution shall be in full force and effect upon adoption and compliance with IC 36-3-4-14. 
 
Councilor Lewis reported that the Metropolitan and Economic Development Committee heard 
Proposal Nos. 317 and 324, 2024 on October 21, 2024.   
 
PROPOSAL NO. 317, 2024.  The proposal, sponsored by  Councilor Osili, appoints Kameelah 
Shaheed-Diallo to the Economic Enhancement District Board .  By a 10- 0 vote, the committee 
reported the proposal to the full Council with the recommendation that it do pass.  Councilor Lewis 
moved, seconded by Councilor Carlino, for adoption.  Proposal No. 317, 2024 was adopted on the 
following roll call vote; viz: 
 
25 YEAS: Allen, Annee, Bain, Barth, Boots, Brown-A, Brown-J, Cahill, Carlino, Delaney, Dilk, Evans, Gibson, 
Graves, Hart, Jones, Lewis, Mascari, McCormick, Mowery, Nielsen, Osili, Perkins, Roberts, Robinson 
0 NAYS:  
 
Proposal No. 317, 2024 was retitled COUNCIL RESOLUTION NO. 7 2, 2024, and reads as 
follows: 
 
CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL RESOLUTION NO. 72, 2024 
 
A COUNCIL RESOLUTION appointing Kameelah Shaheed-Diallo to the Economic Enhancement District Board. 
 
BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE 
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA: 
 
SECTION 1. As a member of the Economic Enhancement District Board, the Council appoints:  
 
Kameelah Shaheed-Diallo 
 
SECTION 2. The appointment made by this resolution is for a term ending December 31, 2025.  The person appointed 
by this resolution shall serve at the pleasure of the Council.  Upon expiration of the term, the appointee may serve until 
his or her successor is appointed and qualifies, for a period not to exceed the holdover duration set by statute. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 324, 2024.  The proposal, sponsored by Councilor Lewis, reappoints Rylan Hall 
to the Woodruff  Place Economic Improvement District Board .  By a 10-0 vote, the committee 
reported the proposal to the full Council with the recommendation that it do pass.  Councilor Lewis

=== 2024-11-04 minutes, page 6 of 33 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 
 
 
 
 
10 
moved, seconded by Councilor A. Brown, for  adoption.  Proposal No. 324, 2024 w as adopted on 
the following roll call vote; viz: 
 
25 YEAS: Allen, Annee, Bain, Barth, Boots, Brown-A, Brown-J, Cahill, Carlino, Delaney, Dilk, Evans, Gibson, 
Graves, Hart, Jones, Lewis, Mascari, McCormick, Mowery, Nielsen, Osili, Perkins, Roberts, Robinson 
0 NAYS:  
 
Proposal No. 324, 2024 was retitled COUNCIL RESOLUTION NO. 73, 2024, and reads as 
follows: 
 
CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL RESOLUTION NO. 73, 2024 
 
A COUNCIL RESOLUTION reappointing Rylan Hall to the Woodruff Place Economic Improvement District Board. 
 
BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE 
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA: 
 
SECTION 1. As a member of the Woodruff Place Economic Improvement District Board, the Council reappoints:  
 
Rylan Hall 
 
SECTION 2. The appointment made by this resolution is for a term ending December 31, 2027.  The person appointed 
by this resolution shall serve at the pleasure of the Council. Upon expiration of the term, the appointee may serve until 
his or her successor is appointed and qualifies, for a period not to exceed the holdover duration set by statute. 
 
INTRODUCTION OF PROPOSALS 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 335, 2024. Introduced by Councilors Osili and Jones.  The Clerk read the 
proposal entitled:  "A Proposal for a General Resolution which approves the establishment of the 
CSX Redevelopment Project Area and CSX Allocation Area in connection with the proposed CSX 
Building project"; and the President referred it to the Metropolitan and Economic Development 
Committee. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 336, 2024. Introduced by Councilor Mascari.  The Clerk read the proposal 
entitled:  "A Proposal for a Fiscal Ordinance which approves an additional appropriation totaling 
of $29,500,000 from the Capital Asset and Lifecycle Development Fund, a transfer of appropriation 
of $30,000 and an additional appropriation of $480,000 in the Consolidated County General Fund 
for use by the Office of Finance and Management to fund the construction of the low barrier shelter, 
facility improvements, and additional contractual costs"; and the President referred it to the 
Administration and Finance Committee. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 337, 2024. Introduced by Councilor Mascari.  The Clerk read the proposal 
entitled:  "A Proposal for a Fiscal Ordinance which transfers existing appropriation from various 
city-county funds for use by various city- county departments and agencies and appropriates 
$6,958,000 of grant awards not previously appropriated"; and the President referred it to the 
Administration and Finance Committee. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 338, 2024. Introduced by Councilors Mascari and Boots.  The Clerk read the 
proposal entitled:  "A Proposal for a Fiscal Ordinance which approves an additional appropriation 
totaling $150,000 and transfers of $250,000 in the 2024 budget of the Marion County Information 
Services Agency (Information Services Fund) for the purpose of affording costs related to IT 
services and equipmen t"; and the President referred it to the Administration and Finance 
Committee.

=== 2024-11-04 minutes, page 7 of 33 ===
November 4, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11  
 
PROPOSAL NO. 339, 2024. Introduced by Councilor Mascari.  The Clerk read the proposal 
entitled:  "A Proposal for a Fiscal Ordinance which approves an additional appropriation totaling 
$42,000 from the County General Fund for use by the Marion County Treasurer to fund additional 
personnel cost"; and the President referred it to the Administration and Finance Committee. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 340, 2024. Introduced by Councilors Mascari, Delaney and Hart.  The Clerk read 
the proposal entitled:  "A Proposal for a Fiscal Ordinance which approves an additional 
appropriation totaling $500,000 and a transfer totaling $258,434 in the 2024 Budget of the Marion 
County Election Board (County General Fund) for the purposes of funding increases in absentee 
team and election day poll worker salaries and costs for legal services associated with the General 
Election"; and the President referred it to the Administration and Finance Committee. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 341, 2024. Introduced by Councilor Mascari.  The Clerk read the proposal 
entitled:  "A Proposal for a General Resolution which adopts an investment policy authorizing the 
investment of public funds of Marion County and to authorize the investi ng officer of the Marion 
County Treasurer's Office to make investments having a stated final maturity that is: (1) more than 
two (2) years; but (2) not more than five (5) years; after the date of purchase or entry into a 
repurchase agreement"; and the President referred it to the Administration and Finance Committee. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 342, 2024. Introduced by Councilor Mascari.  The Clerk read the proposal 
entitled:  "A Proposal for a General Ordinance which amends Chapter 181 Section 601 of the 
Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County entitled Fiscal Procedures and Requirements, 
Special Appropriations to extend the usage of promotional accounts to the entire consolidated city 
and to direct the controller to draft a policy providing further details"; and the President referred it 
to the Administration and Finance Committee. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 343, 2024. Introduced by Councilor Osili.  The Clerk read the proposal entitled:  
"A Proposal for a General Resolution which directs the Rules and Public Policy Committee to 
review and prepare a report pertaining to the fiscal impact statement  associated with the 
Consolidated City of Indianapolis, Marion County union agreement with the American Federation 
of State, County and Municipal Employees"; and the President referred it to the Rules and Public 
Policy Committee. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 344, 2024. Introduced by Councilor Osili.  The Clerk read the proposal entitled:  
"A Proposal for a General Resolution which directs the Rules and Public Policy Committee to 
review and prepare a report pertaining to the fiscal impact statement  associated with the Marion 
County Clerk, Assessor, Auditor and Surveyor union agreement with the American Federation of 
State, County and Municipal Employees Local 827"; and the President referred it to the Rules and 
Public Policy Committee. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 345, 2024. Introduced by Councilors Osili and Jones.  The Clerk read the 
proposal entitled:  "A Proposal for a Special Ordinance which authorizes the issuance of one or 
more series of its City of Indianapolis, Indiana Taxable Economic Developm ent Tax Increment 
Revenue Bonds, Series 202_ (Boxcar Development/CSX Project) (to be completed with the year 
in which issued and such further series or other designation as determined to be necessary), in a 
maximum aggregate principal amount not to exceed $15,600,000, and approving and authorizing

=== 2024-11-04 minutes, page 8 of 33 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 
 
 
 
 
12 
other actions in respect thereto"; and the President referred it to the Metropolitan and Economic 
Development Committee. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 346, 2024. Introduced by Councilor Robinson.  The Clerk read the proposal 
entitled:  "A Proposal for a General Resolution which approves the statement of benefits of Rocky 
Mountain Energy Holdings, LLC and Peregrine Energy Solutions, LLC (hereinafter referred to as 
"Applicant"), an applicant for tax abatement for property located in an allocation area as defined 
by IC 36-7-15.1-26"; and the President referred it to the Metropolitan and Economic Development 
Committee. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 347, 2024. Introduced by Councilor Brown.  The Clerk read the proposal entitled:  
"A Proposal for a Fiscal Ordinance which approves the 2025 Budget of the Woodruff Place 
Economic Improvement District"; and the President referred it to the Metr opolitan and Economic 
Development Committee. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 348, 2024. Introduced by Councilor Mascari.  The Clerk read the proposal 
entitled:  "A Proposal for a Fiscal Ordinance which approves the 2025 Budget of the Greater 
Virginia Avenue Corridor Economic Improvement District"; and the President ref erred it to the 
Metropolitan and Economic Development Committee. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 349, 2024. Introduced by Councilor Gibson.  The Clerk read the proposal 
entitled:  "A Proposal for a General Ordinance which Amends Chapter 744 (Development 
Standards) of the Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County by modifying portions 
pertaining to billboards and making other changes that include technical corrections, correcting 
typographical errors and omissions, and correcting internal references"; and the President referred 
it to the Metropolitan and Economic Development Committee. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 350, 2024. Introduced by Councilor Jones.  The Clerk read the proposal entitled:  
"A Proposal for a Fiscal Ordinance which approves an additional appropriation totaling 
$13,360,000 and transfer of appropriation totaling $3,110,000 in the 2024 Budget for the 
Department of Public Works in the Consolidated County General, Capital Asset Lifecycle and 
Development, Transportation General, and Solid Waste Collection General Funds for the purposes 
of financing increased costs in the maintenance of the City-County Fleet, DPW Operations facility 
needs, and additional residential trash collection contractual costs"; and the President referred it to 
the Public Works Committee. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 351, 2024. Introduced by Councilor Robinson.  The Clerk read the proposal 
entitled:  "A Proposal for a Fiscal Ordinance which approves an additional appropriation totaling 
$712,000 in the 2024 Budget of the Marion County Coroner (County Genera l Fund and State of 
Indiana Grants - County Fund) for the purpose of funding pathology services and continuation of 
the trauma informed care program"; and the President referred it to the Public Safety and Criminal 
Justice Committee. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 352, 2024. Introduced by Councilor Robinson.  The Clerk read the proposal 
entitled:  "A Proposal for a Fiscal Ordinance which approves an additional appropriation totaling 
$378,000 and a transfer of appropriation totaling $150,000 in the 2024 Budget of the Marion 
County Public Defender Agency (County General Fund, Federal Grants - County Fund and State 
of Indiana Grants - County Fund) for the purpose of funding operational costs and continuation of 
the barrier buster program"; and the President referred it to the Public Safety and Criminal Justice 
Committee.

=== 2024-11-04 minutes, page 9 of 33 ===
November 4, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
13  
 
PROPOSAL NO. 353, 2024. Introduced by Councilor Robinson.  The Clerk read the proposal 
entitled:  "A Proposal for a Fiscal Ordinance which approves an additional appropriation totaling 
$7,062,350, a transfer of appropriation totaling $300,000, and a reduction of appropriation totaling 
$912,350 in the 2024 Budget of the Marion County Sheriff in the County General Fund, Medical 
Care for Inmates Fund, Public Safety Income Tax Fund, and Federal Grants Fund for the purposes 
of funding personnel costs and additional grant awards"; and the President referred it to the Public 
Safety and Criminal Justice Committee. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 354, 2024. Introduced by Councilor Robinson.  The Clerk read the proposal 
entitled:  "A Proposal for a General Resolution which directs the Rules and Public Policy 
Committee to review and prepare a report pertaining to the fiscal impact statement associated with 
the Marion County Sheriff's Office union agreement with the Fraternal Order of Police"; and the 
President referred it to the Rules and Public Policy Committee. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 355, 2024. Introduced by Councilor Robinson.  The Clerk read the proposal 
entitled:  "A Proposal for a General Resolution which directs the Rules and Public Policy 
Committee to review and prepare a report pertaining to the fiscal impact statement associated with 
the Indianapolis Fire Department's union agreement with the Indianapolis Professional Firefighters 
(Local 416)"; and the President referred it to the Rules and Public Policy Committee. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 356, 2024. Introduced by Councilor Osili.  The Clerk read the proposal entitled:  
"A Proposal for a General Resolution which directs the Rules and Public Policy Committee to 
review and prepare a report pertaining to the fiscal impact statement  associated with the 
Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department union agreement with the Fraternal Order of Police 
on behalf of Park Rangers"; and the President referred it to the Rules and Public Policy Committee. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 359, 2024. Introduced by Councilor Mascari.  The Clerk read the proposal 
entitled:  "A Proposal for a Council Resolution which reappoints Barbara Lawrence to the 
Information Technology Board"; and the President referred it to the Administration and Finance 
Committee. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 360, 2024. Introduced by Councilor Mascari.  The Clerk read the proposal 
entitled:  "A Proposal for a Council Resolution which reappoints Kerry Forestal to the Information 
Technology Board"; and the President referred it to the Administration and Finance Committee. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 361, 2024. Introduced by Councilor Mascari.  The Clerk read the proposal 
entitled:  "A Proposal for a Council Resolution which reappoints Kate Sweeney Bell to the 
Information Technology Board"; and the President referred it to the Administrati on and Finance 
Committee. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 362, 2024. Introduced by Councilor Lewis.  The Clerk read the proposal entitled:  
"A Proposal for a Council Resolution which reappoints Andrea Neely to the City Market 
Corporation Board of Directors"; and the President referred it to the Metropolitan and Economic 
Development Committee. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 364, 2024. Introduced by Councilor Brown.  The Clerk read the proposal entitled:  
"A Proposal for a Council Resolution which reappoints Julie Burns to the Indianapolis Community

=== 2024-11-04 minutes, page 10 of 33 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 
 
 
 
 
14 
Food Access Advisory Commission"; and the President referred it to the Community Affairs 
Committee. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 365, 2024. Introduced by Councilor Lewis.  The Clerk read the proposal entitled:  
"A Proposal for a Council Resolution which appoints William Longest to the Woodruff Place 
Economic Improvement Board"; and the President referred it to the Metro politan and Economic 
Development Committee. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 366, 2024. Introduced by Councilor Lewis.  The Clerk read the proposal entitled:  
"A Proposal for a Council Resolution which reappoints Brian Barton to the Marion County Property 
Tax Assessment Board of Appeals"; and the President referred it to the Metropolitan and Economic 
Development Committee. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 367, 2024. Introduced by Councilor Lewis.  The Clerk read the proposal entitled:  
"A Proposal for a Council Resolution which reappoints Cathi Gould to the Marion County Property 
Tax Assessment Board of Appeals"; and the President referred it to the Metropolitan and Economic 
Development Committee. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 368, 2024. Introduced by Councilor Lewis.  The Clerk read the proposal entitled:  
"A Proposal for a Council Resolution which reappoints Belinda Drake to the Board of Business 
and Neighborhood Services"; and the President referred it to the Met ropolitan and Economic 
Development Committee. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 369, 2024. Introduced by Councilor Evans.  The Clerk read the proposal entitled:  
"A Proposal for a Council Resolution which reappoints Gregory Hahn to the Indianapolis Public 
Transportation Corporation Board of Directors"; and the President r eferred it to the Municipal 
Corporations Committee. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 370, 2024. Introduced by Councilors Allen, Barth, Boots, A. Brown, Carlino, 
Delaney, Evans, Graves, Lewis, Mascari, McCormick, Nielsen, Osili, Perkins, Roberts and 
Robinson.  The Clerk read the proposal entitled:  "A Proposal for a G eneral Ordinance which 
amends the Revised Code Section of the Consolidated City of Indianapolis Marion County to add 
guidelines for the submittal of Special Resolutions"; and the President referred it to the Rules and 
Public Policy Committee. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 371, 2024. Introduced by Councilor Carlino.  The Clerk read the proposal 
entitled:  "A Proposal for a Council Resolution which reappoints Amy Carroll to the Public Art for 
Neighborhoods Selection Committee"; and the President referred it to the Parks and Recreation 
Committee. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 372, 2024. Introduced by Councilor Robinson.  The Clerk read the proposal 
entitled:  "A Proposal for a Council Resolution which reappoints Abdul Hakim Shabazz to the 
Marion County Public Defender Board"; and the President referred it to the Pu blic Safety and 
Criminal Justice Committee. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 377, 2024. Introduced by Councilors Nielsen and Barth.  The Clerk read the 
proposal entitled:  "A Proposal for a Council Resolution which establishes a study commission to 
evaluate intellectual and developmental disability service providers an d funding allocations in 
Marion County"; and the President referred it to the Rules and Public Policy Committee.

=== 2024-11-04 minutes, page 11 of 33 ===
November 4, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
15  
PROPOSAL NO. 378, 2024. Introduced by Councilor Lewis.  The Clerk read the proposal entitled:  
"A Proposal for a Council Resolution which appoints Brent Lyle to the Metropolitan Development 
Commission"; and the President referred it to the Metropolitan and  Economic Development 
Committee. 
 
SPECIAL ORDERS - PRIORITY BUSINESS 
 
PROPOSAL NOS. 373- 375, 2024 and PROPOSAL NO. 376, 2024.  Introduced by Councilor 
Lewis.  Proposal Nos. 373 -375, 2024 and Proposal No. 376, 2024  are proposals for Rezoning 
Ordinances certified for approval by the Metropolitan Development Commission on October 2 and 
July 17, 2024, respectively .  The President called for any motions for public hearings on any of 
those zoning maps changes.  There being no motions for public hearings, the proposed ordinances, 
pursuant to IC 36-7-4-608, took effect as if adopted by the City-County Council, were retitled for 
identification as REZONING ORDINANCE NOS. 1 14-117, 2024, the original copies of which 
ordinances are on file with the Metropolitan Development Commission, which were certified as 
follows: 
 
REZONING ORDINANCE NO. 114, 2024. 
2024-ZON-039 
3803, 3805, 3919, 4051, and 4233 Lafayette Road, 4262, 4266, 4270, and 4360 West 38th Street, 4702, 4750, and 
4825 Century Plaza Road (Approximate Addresses) 
Pike Township, Council District #5 
PFFO QOZB LLC, by Alex Intermill and Tyler Ochs 
Rezoning of 126.55 acres from the C-4, C-5, and MU-2 (FF) districts to the C-S (FF) district to provide for C-4 
and MU-2 permitted uses, plus commercial retail, community center, athletic fields and courts, film production 
studios, hotels, multi-family dwellings, and educational uses 
 
REZONING ORDINANCE NO. 115, 2024. 
2024-ZON-062 
1025 Jefferson Avenue (Approximate Address) 
Center Township, Council District #13 
Brookside Commercial, LLC, by Joseph D. Calderon 
Rezoning of 0.15-acre from the D-5 district to the SU-38 district to provide for additional surface parking area for 
a community center and apartments. 
   
REZONING ORDINANCE NO. 116, 2024. 
2024-ZON-095 
230, 238, and 240 South Pennsylvania Street (Approximate Addresses) 
Center Township, Council District #18 
Boxcar Development, LLC, by Timothy Ochs 
Rezoning of 1.89 acres from the I-3 (FF) (TOD) (RC) district to the CBD-2 (FF) (TOD) (RC) district for a Mixed-
Use Development. 
 
REZONING ORDINANCE NO. 117, 2024. 
2024-ZON-026  
7405 and 7425 Westfield Boulevard (Approximate Addresses)  
Washington Township, Council District #2 
7425 Westfield Boulevard LLC and 7405 LLC, by Michael Lang 
Rezoning of 1.13 acres from the D-4 (TOD) (FF) district to the C-1 (TOD) (FF) district to provide for a mental 
health treatment facility and office use.

=== 2024-11-04 minutes, page 12 of 33 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 
 
 
 
 
16 
SPECIAL ORDERS - FINAL ADOPTION 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 322, 2024.  Councilor Lewis reported that the Metropolitan and Economic 
Development Committee  heard Proposal No. 322, 2024 on October 21, 2024.  The proposal, 
sponsored by Councilor Mascari, approves the declaratory resolution and redevelopment area plan 
of the Metropolitan Development Commission, establishing a redevelopment area known as the 
Norwood Housing Redevelopment Area and declaring that the area be designated as the Norwood 
Housing T ax Increment Financing (HoTIF) Allocation Area .  By  a 10-0 vote, the commi ttee 
reported the proposal to the full Council with the recommendation that it do pass.  Councilor Lewis 
moved, seconded by Councilor McCormick, for adoption.  Proposal No. 322, 2024 was adopted on 
the following roll call vote; viz: 
 
25 YEAS: Allen, Annee, Bain, Barth, Boots, Brown-A, Brown-J, Cahill, Carlino, Delaney, Dilk, Evans, Gibson, 
Graves, Hart, Jones, Lewis, Mascari, McCormick, Mowery, Nielsen, Osili, Perkins, Roberts, Robinson 
0 NAYS:  
 
Proposal No. 322, 2024 was retitled GENERAL RESOLUTION NO.  43, 2024, and reads as 
follows: 
 
CITY-COUNTY GENERAL RESOLUTION NO. 43, 2024 
 
A GENERAL RESOLUTION of the City -County Council of the City of Indianapolis and of Marion County, Indiana, 
approving (i) a Declaratory Resolution and Redevelopment Area Plan, of the Metropolitan Development Commission of 
Marion County, Indiana, acting as the Redevelopment Commission of the City of Indianapolis, Indiana (the 
“Commission”) and (ii) the determination of the Commission that an area within t he City of Indianapolis, Indiana is a 
housing allocation area within a redevelopment area. 
 
WHEREAS, on October 2, 2024, the Commission adopted its Resolution No. 2024-E -030 (the  “Declaratory 
Resolution”) initially approving a Redevelopment Area Plan (the “Plan”) for a redevelopment area to be established in 
the City known as the “Norwood Housing Redevelopment Area” (the “Area”), and declaring that the Area be designated 
as the “Norwood Housing Tax Increment Financing (HoTIF) Allocation Area” (the “Allocation Area”) pursuant to 
Indiana Code 36-7-15.1 et seq., as amended (collectively, the “Act”); and 
 
WHEREAS, the Act requires approval of the Declaratory Resolution, the Plan, the Area and the establishment of 
the Allocation Area by the City -County Council of the City of Indianapolis and of Marion County, Indiana (the 
“Council”); and 
 
WHEREAS, the Declaratory Resolution and Plan have been submitted to this Council; now, therefore: 
 
BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE 
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND MARION COUNTY, INDIANA: 
 
SECTION 1.  The Declaratory Resolution, Area and Plan for the Area, are in all respects approved, ratified and confirmed 
by the Council. 
 
SECTION 2.  The determination of the Commission that the Allocation Area described in the Declaratory Resolution is 
an allocation area pursuant to the Act is in all respects approved, ratified, and confirmed by the Council. 
 
SECTION 3.  This resolution shall be in full force and effect upon its adoption and compliance with Indiana Code §§ 36-
3-4-14, 36-3-4-15 and 36-3-4-16. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 334, 2024.  Councilor Lewis reported that the Metropolitan and Economic 
Development Committee  heard Proposal No. 334, 2024 on October 21, 2024.  The proposal, 
sponsored by Councilors Roberts and Barth, amends various sections of the Revised Code of the 
Consolidated City and County to reflect the actions of General Ordinance No. 33, 2024, which 
created the Indianapolis Animal Care Services Agency .  By a 10-0 vote, the committee reported

=== 2024-11-04 minutes, page 13 of 33 ===
November 4, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
17  
the proposal to the full Council with the recommendation that it do pass.  Councilor Lewis moved, 
seconded by Councilor A. Brown , for adoption.  Proposal No. 334, 2024 w as adopted on the 
following roll call vote; viz: 
 
25 YEAS: Allen, Annee, Bain, Barth, Boots, Brown-A, Brown-J, Cahill, Carlino, Delaney, Dilk, Evans, Gibson, 
Graves, Hart, Jones, Lewis, Mascari, McCormick, Mowery, Nielsen, Osili, Perkins, Roberts, Robinson 
0 NAYS:  
 
Proposal No. 334, 2024 was retitled GENERAL ORDINANCE NO. 37, 2024, and reads as follows: 
 
CITY-COUNTY GENERAL ORDINANCE NO. 37, 2024 
 
PROPOSAL FOR A GENERAL ORDINANCE to amend various sections of the Revised Code of the Consolidated City 
and County to reflect the actions of General Ordinance No. 33, 2024, which created the Indianapolis Animal Care 
Services Agency. 
 
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE  
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA:  
  
SECTION 1.  The Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County is hereby amended by adding the sections that are 
underlined and deleting the sections that have been stricken through to read as follows:  
 
Sec. 226-202. - Duties of the director. 
 
(a) The director of the department of business and neighborhood services shall: 
 
(1) Supervise and coordinate the activities of divisions within the department; 
 
(2) Oversee the daily operations of the department; 
 
(3) Prepare and submit the department's budget to the controller as required by IC 36-3-6-4; 
 
(4) Appoint a deputy director or administrator to manage each division subject to the approval of the mayor 
as provided in IC 36-3-5-5, and approve the appointment of bureau administrators as provided in Article 
III of this chapter; 
 
(5) Approve the hiring and dismissal of the personnel of the department subject to the limitations prescribed 
by law and rules adopted by the mayor as provided in IC 36-3-5-5(c); 
 
(6) Manage the personnel of the department; 
 
(7) Delegate to the personnel of the department authority to act on behalf of the director as provided in IC 36-
3-5-5(c); 
 
(8) Execute contracts subject to the authority of the mayor and any other limitations prescribed by law; 
 
(9) Procure for the consolidated city a set of the weights and measures provided in IC 24-6-2-1; and 
 
(10) Exercise any other powers that may be granted by statute or ordinance or delegated by the mayor. 
 
(b) The consolidated city of Indianapolis and Marion County through its department of business and neighborhood 
services shall be the successor in interest to all contracts executed by the consolidated city of Indianapolis and 
Marion County through its department of code enforcement. 
 
(c) The consolidated city of Indianapolis and Marion County through its department of busine ss and 
neighborhood services shall be the successor in interest to all contracts executed by the department of public 
safety on behalf of Indianapolis animal care and control.

=== 2024-11-04 minutes, page 14 of 33 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 
 
 
 
 
18 
 
Sec. 226-203. - Divisions and bureaus. 
 
The department of business and neighborhood services shall be composed of the following divisions and bureaus, 
as provided in Article II, Article III, Article IV, Article V, and Article VI of this chapter: 
 
(1) The division of construction and business services, which shall be organized into bureaus and provide the 
following services: 
 
a. Construction and use permitting; 
b. Business licensing; and 
c. Construction inspections. 
 
(2) The division of property and land use services, which shall be organized into bureaus and provide the 
following services: 
 
a. Unsafe building program; 
b. Environmental inspections; 
c. Business and use inspections. 
 
(3) The division of animal care services, which shall be organized into bureaus and provide the following 
services: 
 
a. Animal shelter operations; 
b. Animal control operations; and 
c. An animal services advisory board. 
 
(4) (3) The division of administrative and financial operations, which shall provide the following services: 
 
a. Administration services; 
b. Financial services; and 
c. Logistical services. 
 
ARTICLE V. - DIVISION OF ANIMAL CARE AND CONTROL 
 
DIVISION 1. – ORGANIZATION 
 
Sec. 226-511. - Division established; powers and duties. 
 
(a) The division of animal care services is established within the department of business and neighborhood 
services. The division shall be managed by a deputy director who is appointed by and serves at the pleasure of 
the director, in consultation with the mayor. 
 
(b) The division shall have the powers and duties to operate the city's animal shelter and to enforce provisions of 
statutes and ordinances relating to the care, treatment and control of animals, or as may be assigned by the 
mayor, including but not limited to enforcement of chapter 531, regarding animals. 
 
Sec. 226-512. - Shelter operations; purpose and responsibilities. 
 
The animal care services division shall operate or contract for the operation of the facility located at 2600 South Harding 
Street which shall be known as the "animal care services shelter." 
 
(a) The animal care services shelter is to accept every Marion County resident's animal brought to it. The animal 
care services shelter may require an appointment to surrender an animal. The animal care services shelter shall 
determine the county of residence for the owner of each animal brought to it. All non-Marion County residents 
shall be assessed a surrender fee established by the board of business and neighborhood services not to exceed 
one hundred dollars ($100.00) per animal drop off. The shelter ma y refuse to accept non -Marion County 
residents' animals if the fee is not paid or if the shelter is at or above eighty (80) percent capacity. The division 
shall use the income from the non-resident fee to promote spay and neuter programs. 
 
(b) The division shall maintain a clean, comfortable, safe and healthy environment for the animals at the shelter.

=== 2024-11-04 minutes, page 15 of 33 ===
November 4, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
19  
 
(4) The division shall adopt, subject to the approval of the animal services advisory board, written standards 
and written standard operating procedures to ensure that the shelter is as clean, comfortable, safe and as 
healthy an environment as is reasonably possible. 
 
(5) The shelter shall be open for redemption and adoption of animals a minimum of six (6) partial or whole 
days a week, including one (1) full weekend day. 
 
(6) The shelter shall be open to the public until at least 7:00 p.m. a minimum of one (1) week night each week. 
 
 
(7) The shelter shall make arrangements to receive and assist sick or injured animals twenty -four (24) hours 
a day. 
 
(8) The shelter shall coordinate with enforcement officers to make arrangements for emergency pickup 
service for animals. 
 
(9) The shelter shall contract or arrange for licensed regular veterinary care and for the appropriate veterinary 
medical supplies for the animals at the facility, which veterinary care shall include, but not be limited to: 
treatment of sick and injured animals, care for newborn or young animals, administration of preventative 
vaccines and worming. 
 
(10) The shelter shall provide adequate and nutritional food appropriate to the species and circumstances of the 
individual animal. Animals will be fed in appropriate containers. 
 
(11) The shelter shall assure that the kennels and/or cages in which the animals stay at the shelter are cleaned 
and disinfected regularly and in no case less than once every twenty -four (24) hours. Animals shall be 
humanely moved from their individual kennel to a clean area while the cleaning and disinfecting are being 
performed. 
 
(12) Incoming animals shall be received in an area separate from the rest of the shelter population and shall be 
immediately examined for injury. They shall remain separated from the rest of the shelter population until 
they have been evaluated for health and t emperament. Incoming animals whose vaccination history is 
unknown shall be vaccinated before being moved into the shelter population. 
 
(13) Cages and kennels shall be in good condition, free of sharp or broken edges, covered drains, supplied with 
clean, fresh bedding daily. Every animal shall be kept in an appropriate enclosure so as to remain clean, 
dry, comfortable and free of disease. 
 
(m) Animals in the shelter shall be separated as follows: 
(1) Incoming animals from the shelter population for triage and observation period; 
 
(2) Sick and injured animals from healthy animals so as to receive appropriate care, including off-site facility 
care if needed; 
 
(3) Puppies, kittens and nursing mothers with offspring from all other adult animals; 
 
(14) Further divisions as needed to accommodate temperament and behavior including, but not limited to, 
females in heat and overly aggressive animals; and 
 
(5) Dogs from cats.

=== 2024-11-04 minutes, page 16 of 33 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 
 
 
 
 
20 
DIVISION 2. - ANIMAL SERVICES ADVISORY BOARD 
 
Sec. 226-521. - Animal services advisory board established. 
 
The animal services advisory board is hereby established to help identify the problems and needs of animal care and 
control in the city, to suggest answers and to recommend solutions to these needs and problems, and to educate the public 
regarding the care and ownership of animals. 
 
Sec. 226-522. - Board membership. 
(a) The animal services advisory board shall be composed of five (5) voting members who are residents of the city 
and have an interest in and knowledge of care and control of animals, and who are chosen as follows: 
 
(1) A veterinarian licensed by the State of Indiana and actively engaged, if possible, in private practice in 
Marion County, who shall be appointed by the mayor; 
 
(2) A representative from the Health and Hospital Corporation of Marion County board of public health, who 
shall be appointed by the council; 
 
(3) A representative from the Humane Society of Indianapolis, who shall be appointed by the mayor; 
 
(4) Two (2) members from the community, one (1) of whom shall be appointed by the council, and one (1) 
of whom shall be appointed by the mayor. 
 
In addition to the five (5) voting members, the deputy director of the animal care services division shall be an 
ex officio, non-voting member of the board. 
 
(b) Each board member shall serve at the pleasure of the appointing authority for a term ending December 31 
following appointment and until a successor is appointed. A member may be reappointed for successive terms. 
 
(c) If any board member dies, resigns, vacates office or is removed from office, a new member shall be appointed 
to fill the vacancy in the same manner as the member in respect to whom the vacancy occurs was appointed. 
 
(d) Any board member who fails to attend three (3) consecutive regular meetings of the board shall be treated as 
if he had resigned, unless sufficient written justification is submitted to and approved by the appointing 
authority. The deputy director shall  inform the appointing authority in writing of any board member of such 
board member's failure to attend three (3) consecutive regular meetings. 
 
(e) An appointing authority shall not make all of its appointments from the same political party. 
 
Sec. 226-523. - Officers, quorum, meetings. 
(a) The voting members of the board shall select a chairman and a vice-chairman. A recording secretary who shall 
keep the official minutes of the meetings, reserve meeting room space, handle all of the communications, 
including but not limited to meeting notices, will be supplied by the department of business and neighborhood 
services. All official action of the animal services advisory board shall be in writing and be executed by the 
board upon being authorized by motion passed by the animal services advisory board by simple majority of its 
members present. 
 
(b) A quorum of the board for official action in session shall be three (3) of the five (5) voting members. Official 
minutes of meetings shall be kept by the secretary. 
 
(c) The board shall meet at least every month, or on special call of the chair, or upon the written request of any 
three (3) members with every other meeting being held at the shelter facility located at 2600 South Harding 
Street in the city. 
 
Sec. 226-524. - General powers and duties. 
 
It shall be the responsibility of the board to insure that activities of animal care services are meeting its mission statement, 
to help identify the problems and needs of animal care and control in Marion County, to suggest answers and to 
recommend solutions to these needs and problems, and to educate the public regarding the proper care and responsible 
ownership of animals, and to make reasonable efforts to ensure that sufficient funds are appropriated for the proper and

=== 2024-11-04 minutes, page 17 of 33 ===
November 4, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
21  
necessary equipment and personnel, and upgrades thereof, proper and efficient performance of the services, and work 
required of the division consistent with the board's policies and procedures. 
 
Sec. 226-525. - Specific powers, duties and responsibilities. 
 
The board shall also be charged with the following specific duties and responsibilities: 
(1) To adopt, and if necessary, review and amend rules and regulations for the efficient implementation of its 
policies and procedures, as well as to ensure that the goals identified in the mission statement of animal care 
services are fulfilled; 
 
(2) To allow any person who feels aggrieved at a decision of a public entity concerning animals, or who wishes to 
express a concern involving animals, to file a written request for consideration of such grievance or concern 
with the chairman of the animal serv ices advisory board, who shall place such request on the agenda of a 
meeting of the animal services advisory board. At the meeting, the animal services advisory board shall hear 
the request and take appropriate action; 
 
(3) To make recommendations to the deputy director and/or the council regarding establishing standards for the 
care, disposition, treatment and control of all animals within Marion County including, but not limited to, 
increasing the adoption of animals and establishing criteria for the adoption of animals, establishing education 
and community outreach programs for the animal care services division, establishing and enhancing a county-
wide, "one number to call" lost and found service for pet owners, establishing and administering a not -for-
profit fund for which charitable donations can be made by citizens on behalf of animal care services, 
establishing certification and/or educational requirements for employees of animal care services, and 
encouraging responsible pet ownership, including the spaying and neutering of pet dogs and cats; 
 
(4) To draft and adopt the mission statement for the animal care services division; 
 
(5) To receive and review monthly reports from the administrator concerning: 
a. The numbers of investigations conducted by animal care and control officers, the circumstances involved, 
the status of such investigations; 
 
b. The numbers of animals taken into the shelter, the reasons therefor, the dispositions of such animals (i.e., 
retrieved by owners, adopted, euthanized, etc.) 
 
c. The status of programs designed to implement the mission statement of the animal care services division; 
 
d. Fiscal operation and budgetary needs; and 
 
e. Such other information as the animal services advisory board shall from time to time request; and 
 
(6) To submit to the council, the mayor and the director annual reports of its activities and operations. 
 
CHAPTER 135 - FUNDS 
 
ARTICLE III. - NONREVERTING CITY FUNDS 
 
DIVISION 9. - ANIMAL CARE SERVICES SHELTER FUND 
 
Sec. 135-391. - Animal care services shelter fund. 
 
There is hereby created a special fund to be designated the "animal care services shelter fund" for the purpose of 
programming, diversion efforts, marketing, and shelter operations. promoting spay and neuter programs. The fund shall 
be administered by the Indianapolis Animal Care Services Agency  department of business and neighborhood services . 
The fund shall consist of the fees collected from non-Marion County residents pursuant to section 226-512, or any other 
funding source not otherwise prohibited by law. This fund shall be a continuing, non-reverting fund with all balances 
remaining therein at the end of the year. Such balances shall not lapse into the consolidated county fund or be diverted 
for uses other than those stated in this section.

=== 2024-11-04 minutes, page 18 of 33 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 
 
 
 
 
22 
CHAPTER 531 – ANIMALS 
 
ARTICLE I. - GENERAL PROVISIONS 
 
Sec. 531-101. - Definitions. 
 
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section. 
 
Animal means any living, nonhuman vertebrate creature.  
 
Animal care services division  means the animal care services division of the department of business and neighborhood 
services. 
 
Animal care services shelter means the shelter described in section 226-512 288-103 of this Code. 
 
At large means being loose and free roaming, not being on a leash and under the control of a competent person, or any 
portion of the animal's body not being confined within a pen, corral, yard, cage, house, vehicle, or other secure enclosure 
or structure or by other means that prevents escape. 
 
Board means the board of animal care services . business and neighborhood services of the department of business and 
neighborhood services. 
 
Community cat means an unowned cat that has been captured, evaluated, ear tipped, sterilized and vaccinated against 
rabies by a licensed veterinarian and released in accordance with section 531-209 of this Code. 
 
Community cat caretaker means a person that provides food, water or outdoor areas of shelter to a community cat and 
who is not otherwise prohibited from owning or keeping animals. 
 
Crime prevention dog means and includes a dog that is trained and used by its owner or keeper primarily for the protection 
of persons or property, or both. 
 
Dangerous animal means any animal that: 
 
(1) Would constitute a danger to human life or property if it were not kept in the manner required by this chapter; 
 
(2) Has caused serious injury to a person without having been provoked by that person; 
 
(3) At a place other than its owner's or keepers property has: 
a. Chased or approached a person in a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack; or 
 
b. Attacked another domestic animal; or 
 
(4) Because of its training or behavior, is capable of inflicting physical harm or death to humans. 
 
Dog means and includes animals of the Canis familiaris species, and hybrids of a Canis familiaris and any other member 
of the Canis genus, including wolves. 
 
Domestic animals means rabbits, cattle, horses, ponies, mules, donkeys, jackasses, llamas, swine, sheep, goats, dogs, cats 
and poultry. 
 
Exposed to rabies means an animal has been exposed to rabies if it has been bitten by or been in contact with any animal 
known or reasonably suspected to have been infected with rabies. 
 
Free-roaming cat means a cat that is at large that does not possess an identification tag or microchip as required by 
section 501-202 of this Code nor has been ear tipped to indicate it is a community cat. 
 
Kennel means a facility operated commercially and principally for the purpose of boarding, housing, breeding or training 
dogs or cats, or both. For purposes of this chapter, kennel shall not include a facility in or adjoining a private residence 
where dogs or cat s are kept for the hobby of the owner, lessee or other occupant of the property using the animals for 
hunting, practice tracking, exhibiting in shows or field or obedience trials or for the guarding or protecting of the property,

=== 2024-11-04 minutes, page 19 of 33 ===
November 4, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
23  
and an occasional sale of pups or kittens by the owner, lessee or other occupant of the property shall not make such 
property a kennel for the purposes of this chapter. 
 
Law enforcement animal means an animal that is owned or used by a law enforcement agency for the purpose of aiding 
in the detection of criminal activity, enforcement of laws, the apprehension of offenders and ensuring the public welfare. 
 
Monitored means that the animal: 
(1) Is controlled by means of a leash or other device held by a competent person, subject to the provisions of 
sections 531-401 and 531-728, which animal is sufficiently near the owner or handler as to be under his or her 
direct control and is obedient to that person's command; 
 
(2) Is on or within a vehicle being driven or parked; or 
 
(3) Is confined as required by this chapter. 
 
Nonbite exposure means and includes scratches, abrasions, open wounds or mucous membranes contaminated with saliva 
or other potentially infectious material from a rabid animal. 
 
Own means to keep, harbor or have custody, charge or control of an animal, and owner means any person who owns an 
animal; however: 
(1) Veterinarians and operators of kennels, pet shops and stables, as those terms are defined in Chapter 836 of this 
Code, who temporarily keep animals owned by, or held for sale to other persons shall not be deemed to own 
or be owners, but rather to be keepers of such animals. 
 
(2) A community cat caretaker shall not be deemed to own or keep a community cat but rather to provide limited 
oversight of such animals. 
 
Person means and includes any individual, corporation, partnership or other association or organization, but shall exclude 
the following for purposes of section 531-401: 
(1) Police officers, federal or state armed forces, park rangers, game wardens, conservation officers and other such 
governmental agencies, with respect to actions that constitute a discharge of their official duties; and 
 
(2) An individual, partnership, corporation or other association, organization, or institution of higher education, 
that is registered as a research facility with the United States Secretary of Agriculture under 7 USC § 2131 et 
seq., commonly known as the "Animal Welfare Act," while engaged in the course of their performance as such. 
 
Provoke means the infliction of bodily harm on the animal or another person, or  conduct that constitutes a substantial 
step toward the infliction of bodily harm on the animal or another person. 
 
Quarantining authority means the animal care services agency  department of business and neighborhood services, its 
contractors, agents, employees and designees, acting under directives and regulations of the Health and Hospital 
Corporation of Marion County or the state board of animal health. 
 
Serious injury means any injury that results in permanent disfigurement, unconsciousness, extreme pain, or permanent 
or protracted loss or impairment of the function of a bodily member or organ and includes, in regard to an animal, an 
injury requiring euthanasia. 
 
Veterinarian means a person licensed to practice veterinary medicine in the state. 
 
Wild animal means and includes: 
(1) A Class III wild animal for which a state permit is required under 310 IAC 3.1-11-8 and/or IC 14-22-26; and 
 
(2) A venomous snake, poisonous amphibian, or other large reptile. 
 
Sec. 531-102. - Animals at large prohibited; penalties. 
 
(a) An owner or keeper of an animal commits a violation of the Code if that animal is at large in the city.

=== 2024-11-04 minutes, page 20 of 33 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 
 
 
 
 
24 
(b) Except as provided in subsection (c) of this section, section 531- 501 or section 531-727, the first violation in 
any twelve-month period shall be subject to an admission of violation and payment of the designated civil 
penalty through the ordinance violati ons bureau in accordance with Chapter 103 of the Code. All subsequent 
violations in a twelve-month period are subject to the enforcement procedures provided in section 103-3 of the 
Code and a fine of not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) per violation. 
 
(c) If, while the animal is at large in violation of this section at a location other than its owner's or keeper's property 
or in the public right-of-way, it: 
 
(1) Attacks another animal; or 
 
(2) Chases or approaches a person in a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack; 
 
then the violation shall be subject to the enforcement procedures and penalties provided in section 103-3 of the 
Code, and the fine imposed shall not be less than two hundred and fifty dollars ($250.00), or five hundred 
dollars ($500.00) if another animal or person is injured as a result of the animal's actions. If the violation results 
in serious injury to any person, the court upon request shall order the animal forfeited and/or destroyed. 
 
ARTICLE II. - DOGS AND CATS 
 
Sec. 531-202. - Permanent identification of dogs and cats required. 
 
(a) A person who owns a dog or cat in the consolidated city and county shall ensure that each dog or cat owned by 
that person bears a permanent means of identification at all times, such that the animal's owner can be 
ascertained accurately, quickly, and easily. 
 
(b) The identification required by this section shall be in addition to any tags required to be worn by dogs or cats 
by state law or other provision of this Code, and shall be either by means of a microchip implanted in the dog 
or cat or animal that bears a registered identification number, and that can be read by a standard microchip 
scanner; or 
 
(c) Each veterinarian or other person in the consolidated city and county who implants microchips as contemplated 
in this section shall make available upon request to the animal care services division the names, addresses, and 
phone numbers of the owners of the dogs and cats, and the corresponding microchip identification numbers. 
Such records shall be available to the animal care services agency division without court order. 
 
Sec. 531-205. - Unlawful care for a free-roaming cat. 
 
It shall be unlawful for a person to provide food, water or shelter to a free -roaming cat for a period of more than sixty 
(60) days unless in compliance with sections 531-209 and 531-210 of this Code. The animal care services agency division 
may impound community cats in violation of this chapter and dispose of the cats in accordance with section 531-731. 
 
Sec. 531-208. - Lost or stray domestic animals. 
 
(a) Persons finding a stray animal are to notify the  animal care services agency  division, or its designee, within 
forty-eight (48) hours. At the discretion of the agency division, the animal may be kept by the finder and a 
found report left with the agency  division, or its designee, to enable the finder an opportunity to return the 
animal to its rightful owner. The finder is expected to make a reasonable effort to find the animals owner or 
keeper prior to surrendering them to the shelter. 
 
(b) Upon demand, by the animal care services agency division, any found animal will be taken to an appropriate 
facility and scanned for an identifying microchip. 
 
(c) Persons finding an animal are obligated to comply with all the rules and regulations of this chapter pertaining 
to humane care and treatment of animals, while said animal is in their custody awaiting return to its actual 
owner. 
 
(d) With the exception of the Humane Society of Indianapolis or other humane and/or breed rescue organizations 
recognized by the animal care services agency division, the finder will be considered the found animal's owner 
for purposes of this chapter fourteen (14) continuous days after the found report was filed with the animal care 
services agency division or its designee.

=== 2024-11-04 minutes, page 21 of 33 ===
November 4, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
25  
 
Sec. 531-209. - Community cat program. 
 
(a) A community cat program is established in order to encourage the stabilization of the free -roaming cat 
population in the city by utilizing a trap, neuter, and return methodology. 
 
(b) A person may trap any free-roaming cat in a humane manner, utilizing a live release trap that does not injure 
the animal, and in accordance with the requirements of  section 531-407
 in order to have the free -roaming cat 
evaluated, surgically sterilized, ear-tipped, and vaccinated against rabies by a licensed veterinarian and released 
to the vicinity from where it was trapped or released to a community cat caretaker. 
 
(c) A community cat, impounded by the animal care services agency division, shall be returned to the vicinity from 
where it was trapped unless the circumstances present a detriment to the cat or to the public health or welfare. 
 
Sec. 531-210. - Community cat caretaker responsibilities. 
 
(a) A community cat caretaker shall abide by standard guidelines devised by the  animal care services agency  
division regarding the provision of food, water, shelter and veterinary care for a community cat as well as 
comply with section 531-209 of this Code. 
 
(b) Community cat caretakers shall take a seriously ill or injured community cat to the animal care services shelter 
or seek licensed veterinarian care for the community cat. 
 
(c) A person who violates any provision of this section shall be punishable as provided in section 103-3 of this 
Code; provided, however, a fine imposed for the first such violation shall not be less than twenty-five dollars 
($25.00). 
 
Sec. 531-305. - Finding of rabies; general quarantine. 
 
(a) When an animal quarantined in the city has been found rabid or is suspected of being rabid by a veterinarian 
and dies while under observation, the quarantining authority shall take such action as is specified in such cases 
by the state board of animal health and shall notify the proper public health officials of reports of human 
contacts made by, and the diagnosis made of, the animal. 
 
(b) When a rabies report is made under subsection (a) of this section, the quarantining authority shall recommend 
to the director of the animal care services agency department of business and neighborhood services a general 
quarantine in the city for a period of thirty (30) days. Upon invocation of the general quarantine by the director, 
any animal found at large in the city may be destroyed without being impounded. During the quarantine period, 
every animal bitten or exposed through nonbite exposure by an animal adjudged to be rabid shall be confined, 
at its owner's expense, or destroyed as specified by the state board of animal health. 
 
(c) During a general quarantine declared by the director under this section, an animal's owner or keeper who resists 
the quarantining authority acting under this chapter, or who permits an animal owned or kept by that person to 
be at large in the city, shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00), and any animal 
which is suspected of being rabid or is in violation of the general quarantine shall be impounded. 
 
ARTICLE IV. - CARE AND TREATMENT 
 
Sec. 531-401. - General requirements for animal care and treatment. 
 
(a) Every owner or keeper of an animal kept in the consolidated city and county shall see that such animal: 
 
(1) Is kept in a clean, sanitary and healthy manner and is not confined so as to be forced to stand, sit or lie in 
its own excrement; the person(s) responsible for animal(s) shall regularly and as often as necessary to 
prevent odor or health and sanitation problems, maintain all animal areas or areas of animal contact;

=== 2024-11-04 minutes, page 22 of 33 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 
 
 
 
 
26 
(2) Has food that is appropriate for the species in adequate amounts to maintain good health, fresh potable 
drinking water where appropriate, shelter and ventilation, including quarters that are protected from 
excessive heat and cold and are of sufficient size to permit the animal to exercise and move about freely; 
 
(3) Is protected against abuse, cruelty, neglect, torment, overload, overwork, or any other mistreatment; 
 
(4) Shall provide the reasonably necessary medical care according to commonly accepted veterinary 
standards, in addition to the required rabies vaccination which shall include recommended vaccinations 
as required by accepted veterinary standards, and if diseased or injured, or exhibiting symptoms of disease, 
receives proper care and is segregated from other animals so as to prevent transmittal of the disease; and 
 
(5) Is maintained in compliance with all applicable federal, state and local laws and all regulations respecting 
animal care and control as are adopted by the animal care services agency  department of business and 
neighborhood services and in effect from time to time. 
 
(b) It shall be unlawful for a person to beat, starve or otherwise mistreat any animal in the city, or to fail to comply 
with any requirement of subsection (a) of this section. 
 
(c) It shall be unlawful to tether any animal by use of a choke collar, or on any collar too small for the size and age 
of the animal, or by any rope, chain, or cord directly attached to the animal's neck, or by a leash less than twelve 
(12) feet in length, or by any tether or leash without swivels on both ends, or of such unreasonable weight as 
to prevent the animal from moving about freely; 
 
(d) It shall be unlawful for any animal to be tethered between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.; or to tether 
any un-sterilized dog for any period of time unless the dog is in visual range of a competent adult who is outside 
with the dog; or to tether or confine an animal at a vacant structure or premises for any purpose or time when 
it is not monitored by a competent adult who is present at the property for the duration of such tethering or 
confinement. 
 
(e) In addition to the general requirements for animal care and treatment in this article, every owner or keeper of 
a dog kept in the consolidated city and county shall see that such dog when confined outside: 
 
(1) Has access to a shelter constructed of solid wood or other weather resistant material, consisting of a 
structure with solid walls on all sides, a dry floor raised above the ground, and a solid roof sloped away 
from the entrance to protect the dog from weather and extreme cold. During winter and any day when the 
temperature is at or below 40°F, the shelter must be just large enough for the dog to stand up and turn 
around, the entrance covered by a flexible wind-proofing material or self -closing door, and must contain 
clean, dry bedding, which must consist of an insulating material that does not retain moisture, such as 
straw, of sufficient depth for the dog to burrow. On any day when the temperature is at or above 80°F, the 
shelter must be shaded by trees, a tarp, or a tarp-like device. 
 
(2) Must be brought into a temperature -controlled facility when the temperature is at or below 20°F or at or 
above 90°F, or when a heat advisory, wind chill warning, or tornado warning has been issued by local, 
state, or national authority, except when the dog in visual range of a competent adult who is outside with 
the dog. 
 
(3) as adequate space for exercise when confined in an enclosure or pen, which shall consist of no less than 
one hundred (100) square feet. A dog over eighty (80) pounds must be provided with an additional fifty 
(50) square feet. For each additional dog inside the enclosure, fifty square feet of space for exercise must 
be added per dog. 
 
(4) Is treated so that there are no open lesions on the dog's skin due to insect bites or other parasitic infections. 
 
(5) Shall not be tethered except when all of the following conditions are met: 
(i) The tether is not attached to a motorized vehicle, such as an automobile, truck, or motorcycle; 
 
(ii) The dog is at least six (6) months of age and is not sick or injured; 
 
(iii) The tethered dog has access to water, shelter, and dry ground. If there are multiple tethered dogs, 
each dog must be tethered separately in a manner that prevents the tethers from becoming entangled 
with each other or any other object, and each dog must have separate water and shelter;

=== 2024-11-04 minutes, page 23 of 33 ===
November 4, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
27  
 
(iv) The tether is attached to the dog by a properly fitting buckle-type collar, or a collar that will not break 
under pressure, with a rotating toggle or attachment. Pinch, prong, or choke collars shall not be used. 
The tether shall not wrap directly around the dog's neck; 
 
(v) The tether is not of such unreasonable weight as to prevent the dog from moving about freely, is free 
of tangles, cannot be entangled with another animal or object, and is at least twelve (12) feet in length. 
 
(vi) If the dog is attached to a trolley system, the running line must be at least twelve (12) feet in length 
and the tether length must be greater than the height of the running line. 
 
(vii) The tether is located so as not to allow the dog to trespass on public or private property nor in such a 
manner as to cause harm or danger to persons or other animals. 
 
(f) In the discretion of the enforcement authority, as that term is defined in section 531-711 of this Code, a person 
who violates any provision of this section for the first time may be given written notice of the practices or 
conditions which constitute the violation, and the enforcement authority shall in such instance direct remedies 
to such person where appropriate and provide a time period of no longer than thirty (30) days within which to 
correct the violation(s). Failure of the person to correct the vio lations within the specified time period shall 
constitute prima facie evidence of this section. 
 
(g) A person who violates any provision of this section shall be punishable as provided in section 103 -3 of this 
Code; provided, however, the fines imposed for any such violation shall be as follows: 
 
(1) For the first violation, not less than twenty-five dollars ($25.00); and 
 
(2) For the second or subsequent violations, not less than two hundred dollars ($200.00), and the court upon 
request shall order forfeiture or other disposition of the animal involved. A judgment by the court which 
orders forfeiture or other disposition of the animal by the city or any third party shall include as a part of 
such judgment adequate provisions for the collection of costs of forfeiture or impoundment from the 
person found in violation. 
 
(h) For purposes of this section, the following terms have the following meanings: 
 
(1) "Confined outside" means confined outside the house, mobile home, or apartment where the owner is living. 
Confined outside would include in the yard, or in a garage, shed, or barn without heating or air-conditioning. 
Access to a garage, shed, or barn maint ained between 40°F and 80°F would not be considered confined 
outside. 
 
(2) "Temperature controlled facility" means a building maintained between 40°F and 80°F. 
 
ARTICLE V. - WILD OR DANGEROUS ANIMALS, REGISTRATION, CONFINEMENT AND APPEAL RIGHTS 
 
Sec. 531-501. - Wild animal and dangerous animal determination, appeal rights and confinement requirements. 
 
(a) For purposes of this article, the procedure, terms, and penalties provided in this section shall apply to wild animal 
and dangerous animal determinations, care requirements to be imposed, and actions by the animal care services 
agency division. 
 
(b) After an investigation, the administrator as assigned by the deputy director or his or her designee of the animal 
care services agency  division is authorized to make a determination whether an animal is, based upon the 
factors listed in section 531-101, dangerous or potentially dangerous and shall notify the owner of the animal 
in writing of that status. If the administrator  director or his or her designee has probable cause to believe that 
an animal is dangerous or potentially dangerous, the administrator director or his or her designee may convene 
a hearing for the purpose of determining whether the animal in question shall be declared dangerous or 
potentially dangerous and to determine if the animal would pose a threat to public safety if returned to its owner 
or if specific conditions of care and treatment were not imposed on the return of the animal to its owner. Prior

=== 2024-11-04 minutes, page 24 of 33 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 
 
 
 
 
28 
to the hearing, the administrator  director or his or her designee  shall conduct or cause to be conducted an 
investigation and shall provide reasonable notice of the hearing to the owner. 
 
(c) Following notice to the owner and prior to the hearing, if the administrator  director or his or her designee  has 
probable cause to believe that an animal is dangerous and may pose a threat to public safety, the administrator 
director or his or her designee may obtain a search warrant pursuant to the laws of this jurisdiction and impound 
the animal pending disposition of the case. The owner of the animal shall be liable for the cost and expenses of 
keeping the animal. 
 
(d) The hearing shall be held no less than five (5), and not more than ten (10) days, excluding holidays, Saturdays 
and Sundays, after service of notice upon the animal's owner. The hearing shall be informal and open to the 
public. The owner shall have the opportunity to present evidence as to why the animal should not be declared 
dangerous or not pose a threat to public safety if returned to its owner. The administrator director or his or her 
designee may present all issues for or against the owner of the animal regardless of whether the owner appears 
at the hearing. 
 
(e) Within five (5) days after the hearing, the administrator director or his or her designee shall notify the owner in 
writing of the determination. 
 
(f) The owner may, within five (5) days after a determination that an animal is dangerous, bring a petition in this 
county seeking review of the determination. A decision by a court overturning the administrator director or his 
or her designee shall result in the return of the animal to the owner subject to the provisions of  section 531-
733. 
 
(g) Confinement of a dangerous animal means confinement to a fenced yard from which the animal may not escape 
by slipping under or over the fence or through an open gate or which would allow the animal to bite or to 
otherwise wound a person who may brush against or stick a hand or finger in, over or through the fence. Such 
an animal may be confined in an owner's home. The animal's confinement must be such as will prevent the 
animal from harassing neighbors or passersby and may not constitute either a sight, smell or noise nuisance. 
 
(h) Any violation of this section shall subject the owner or person in possession of the animal to the enforcement 
provisions of  section 103 -3 of the Code, and the fine imposed shall not be less than five hundred dollars 
($500.00) for the first violation; not less than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for a second violation; and upon 
a third violation, the animal shall be seized in accordance with section 531-721, et seq. If such violation results 
in the animal causing serious injury to any person, the cour t shall, upon request, order the animal forfeited 
and/or destroyed. 
 
Sec. 531-502. - Wild animal and dangerous animal; registration required; limitation on ownership. 
 
(a) It shall be unlawful for a person to own a wild animal or dangerous animal in the city without first having 
registered the animal with the animal care services agency  division under this article; however, this section 
shall not apply to zoological parks or bona fide circuses or carnivals. 
 
(b) It shall be unlawful for any person to own more than two (2) dangerous animals at any time in the city. This 
subsection shall not apply to veterinarians and operators of kennels that are registered under Chapter 836 of 
this Code. 
 
(c) It shall be unlawful for any person to own any dangerous animal that is a dog in the city unless the dog has 
been spayed or neutered by a veterinarian and has been implanted with a microchip with a registered 
identification number. 
 
Sec. 531-503. - Crime prevention dog; registration required. 
 
(a) It shall be unlawful for a person to own a crime prevention dog in the city without first having registered the 
animal with the animal care services agency division under this article. 
 
(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of section 531-202 of the Code, each crime prevention dog shall be implanted 
with a microchip which bears a registered identification number. 
 
Sec. 531-504. - Registration information required; notification of change.

=== 2024-11-04 minutes, page 25 of 33 ===
November 4, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
29  
(a) A registration required by this article shall be made on forms provided by the animal care services agency  
division, and shall include the following: 
 
(1) The owner's name, address, and telephone number where the owner can be reached in the event of an 
emergency; 
 
(2) The address and type of premises where the animal is kept; 
 
(3) A detailed description of each animal registered; and 
 
(4) Any other information deemed necessary and appropriate by the animal care services agency division. 
 
(b) During the term of the registration, the owner of an animal registered under this article shall notify the animal 
care services agency division in writing of any change in circumstances which would render the information 
contained in the registration incomplete or inaccurate. 
 
Sec. 531-505. - Registration fee, term and revocation. 
 
(a) There is no fee for the registration of an animal under this article. 
 
(b) The term of the registration shall expire on the last day of December of the year in which the registration is 
made, and shall be renewable upon application therefor. 
 
(c) The animal care services agency division may revoke a registration issued under this article for any violation 
of this article committed by the owner of the animal. 
 
ARTICLE VI. - EUTHANASIA OF ANIMALS 
 
Sec. 531-601. - Humane euthanasia of animals. 
 
(a) The animal care services agency division, other animal shelters, and/or public animal facilities which destroy 
animals in the city, shall use only such methods, materials and standards as approved by the American 
Veterinary Medical Association for said purpose. In no event shall an animal be euthanized inhumanely. 
 
(b) The shelter shall provide sedatives for struggling or vicious animals when necessary for use during the 
euthanasia process and train its personnel in their proper and humane use and administration. 
 
ARTICLE VII. - ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY 
 
DIVISION 1. - IN GENERAL 
 
Sec. 531-711. - Enforcement authority defined. 
 
For the purposes of this article, the enforcement authority shall consist of the department of business and neighborhood 
services by its  the animal care services agency  division, its designees, and the Indianapolis metropolitan police 
department. 
 
Sec. 531-712. - Enforcement authority's rights and responsibilities. 
 
(a) Persons who are individually charged with the enforcement of this chapter, within the division of  animal care 
services agency, shall be designated animal care and  control officers, and prior to the performance of any act 
in connection therewith, shall be appointed and sworn as special police officers pursuant to chapter 279, of the 
Code. Such animal care and control officers shall also receive appropriate and relevant training and be certified 
by the National Animal Control Association or other appropriate agency. 
 
(b) It shall be the duty of the Indianapolis metropolitan police department to assist in the enforcement of all 
provisions of this chapter and other ordinances in relation to animals, and it shall be the duty of all officers of 
such agency to report at once all violations thereof to police or sheriff's headquarters.

=== 2024-11-04 minutes, page 26 of 33 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 
 
 
 
 
30 
 
(c) Such officers are authorized to enforce all provisions of this chapter and section 836-5 of this Code, including 
the right to proceed upon public and private property in the city in pursuit of animals in violation of this chapter. 
 
(d) Such officers are not authorized to enter a privately owned enclosure in pursuit of an animal without the consent 
of the owner, lessee or other occupant of the enclosure, or other legal process; provided, however, if any animal 
is believed to be enclosed without adequate food, shelter and water, or dead animals are believed to be enclosed, 
and such owner or occupant is not present and cannot readily be located, an animal care and  control officer 
may affix a notice to the premises in an obvious location, directing the occupant to contact the officer at a given 
location and phone number. If neither the occupant nor anyone on the occupant's behalf responds to such notice 
within twenty -four (24) hours after the notice is affixed, an animal care and  control officer may enter the 
premises to determine if the provisions of this chapter or section 836-5 of this Code have been violated. 
 
Sec. 531-713. - Interference with enforcement authority. 
 
It shall be unlawful for a person to interfere with an animal care and control officer or other enforcement authority officer 
in the performance of the officer's duties. A person who violates this section shall be punishable as provided in section 
103-3 of this Code; provided, however, a fine imposed for any such violation shall not be less than fifty dollars ($50.00). 
 
DIVISION 2. - IMPOUNDMENT AND DISPOSITION OF ANIMALS 
 
Sec. 531-722. - Notice to owner. 
 
(a) Upon the impoundment of an animal, a reasonable attempt shall be made to notify and inform the owner of the 
animal of the requirements of this article for regaining the custody of the animal. 
 
(b) Such attempt shall include, but not necessarily be limited to, the following: 
 
(1) In the instance of an impounded dog or cat, contact with the owner identified by the microchip or other 
permanent means of identification, if any, borne by the dog or cat; 
 
(2) In the instance of an impounded dog or cat not bearing a permanent means of identification, contact with 
the veterinarian facility listed on the animal's vaccination tag; and 
 
(3) Cooperation of effort with other governmental and private agencies, such as the Humane Society of 
Indianapolis or other humane and/or breed rescue organizations recognized by the animal care services 
agency division. 
 
Sec. 531-723. - Report of impoundment. 
 
A person who confines an animal found by that person to be at large in the city shall notify the animal care services 
agency division or one of its agents within forty-eight (48) hours thereafter. 
 
Sec. 531-724. - Return of captured animal without impoundment. 
 
When the owner of a captured animal is known, such animal need not be impounded but may be returned to its owner if, 
in the opinion of the animal control  care services officer or management of the animal care services agency, the return 
would not present a detriment to the public health or welfare or otherwise result in a violation of this chapter. A 
community cat shall be released where captured, unless reasonable options of return have been exhausted. 
 
Sec. 531-725. - Return of impounded animal to its owner. 
 
(a) An animal impounded under this division, if claimed by its owner, shall be returned to its owner subject to, and 
upon compliance with, the provisions of division 2 and division 3 of this article. 
 
(b) The owner of an impounded animal may obtain the return of such animal upon compliance with any applicable 
provisions the board or agency may impose, and the payment of the appropriate impoundment and kennel fees, 
and any other applicable fees and fines. 
 
(c) Prior to the return to its owner of an impounded dog or cat which at the time of impoundment did not bear a 
permanent means of identification as required by section 531-202 of this Code, the enforcement authority shall

=== 2024-11-04 minutes, page 27 of 33 ===
November 4, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
31  
cause a microchip with a registered identification number to be implanted in the animal. The fee for such service 
shall be ten dollars ($10.00). 
 
Sec. 531-727. - Petition for bond to cover costs of impoundment and care; forfeiture of animal. 
 
(a) Petition. Whenever an animal is impounded under this article for a violation of  section 531 -109, 531-204, 
or 531-305, or a violation of article IV of this chapter, or a violation of [article] V of this chapter, or a violation 
of 531-728, or has been impounded on a prior occasion, or the city prosecutor has applied for an order 
under section 531- 733, the city prosecutor may file a petition with the court having jurisdiction over the 
ordinance enforcement action requesting an order to require the owner to post a cash bond to cover the fees 
and costs of the animal's care. The petition shall include an itemized estimate of the reasonable expenses the 
animal care services agency division expects to incur for the care of the animal from the time of impoundment 
to a minimum of thirty (30) days thereafter. Such expenses shall include but are not limited to the impoundment 
fee and kennel fees provided in section 531-726 of the Code, and the estimated cost of emergency and routine 
veterinary care. 
 
(b) Hearing and order.  The court, pursuant to its rules of procedure, shall provide the opportunity for a prompt 
hearing and prompt decision on the city prosecutor's petition. If the court finds there is a reasonable likelihood 
that the city will prevail on the merits of the ordinance enforcement action, then the court shall order the owner 
to post a cash bond as provided in this section to cover the fees and other costs of care of the animal for a 
specific period of time of not less than thirty (30) days beginning on the date of impoundment. 
 
(c) Posting of bond; time requirements. The owner shall post the bond by delivering cash or a certified or cashier's 
check payable to "City of Indianapolis" to the animal care services agency division. The cash or check must be 
received by the animal care services agency  division within three (3) days after the date of the court's order, 
excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and city holidays established in section 291-206 of the Code. The animal care 
services agency division shall hold such check or cash in trust until forfeiture of the animal, return of the animal 
to its owner, or final adjudication of the ordinance enforcement action, whichever first occurs. 
 
(d) Renewal bonds. The animal's owner shall renew the bond at the end of the period of time ordered by the court, 
and every thirty (30) days thereafter, in the same manner as posting the bond provided in subsection (c) of this 
section. The owner's duty to renew the bond sha ll continue until forfeiture of the animal, return of the animal 
to its owner, or final adjudication of the ordinance enforcement action, whichever first occurs. The owner shall 
pay the renewal bond before the close of business on the las t day of each bond period; however, if such last 
day is a Saturday, Sunday, or city holiday established in section 291-206 of the Code, then the renewal bond 
shall be paid on the last business day prior to such Saturday, Sunday, or holiday. 
 
(e) Forfeiture. If an owner fails to post a bond within three (3) days as provided by subsection (c) of this section, 
or fails to pay a renewal bond before the close of business on the last day of each bond period as provided by 
subsection (d) of this section, then the owner shall be presumed to have surrendered all rights and claim of 
ownership and control of the animal and the city prosecutor may petition the court for an order to dispose of 
the animal under the provisions of section 531-731
 of the Code. 
 
(f) Expiration of bond. Upon forfeiture of the animal, return of the animal to its owner, or final adjudication of the 
ordinance enforcement action, whichever first occurs, the animal care services agency division shall be entitled 
to draw upon the cash or certified or cashier's check to cover the animal's impoundment fee, kennel fees and 
the cost of any actual veterinary care. After the fees and costs are paid, the city shall promptly remit any 
remaining bond money to the owner; however, if the bond money is not sufficient to cover such fees and costs, 
the owner shall be liable to the city for the difference. 
 
Sec. 531-728. - Additional restrictions on dangerous or nuisance owners or keepers of animals. 
 
(a) It shall be unlawful for any person who has been found in violation of  sections 531 -102 (at large),  531-
103 (animals in heat),  531-109 (animal attacks),  531-204 (nuisance), 531-206 (unlawful use),  531-401 (care 
and treatment), 531-402 (abandonment), 531-404 (animal fights) or article V of this chapter, to own or keep 
more than two (2) dogs in the city or to own or keep any dog:

=== 2024-11-04 minutes, page 28 of 33 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 
 
 
 
 
32 
 
(1) That has not been spayed or neutered by a veterinarian; or and 
 
(2) That has not been implanted with a microchip with a registered identification number. 
 
(b) A person who has been found in violation of  sections 531-102(c) (at large),  531-109 (animal attacks), 531-
206 (unlawful use), 531-404 (animal fights) or article V of this chapter commits a violation of the code if any 
dog owned or kept by that person is outside a structural enclosure sufficient to confine the dog without m eans 
of escape, unless the dog is on a leash and under the control of a competent adult. 
 
DIVISION 3. - OTHER DISPOSITION OF ANIMALS 
 
Sec. 531-731. - Disposition of owner-surrendered animals and impounded animals not claimed by owner; adoption. 
 
(a) An animal surrendered by its owner to the animal care services agency division and not adopted, or rescued by 
a humane or breed rescue organization, may be kept or otherwise humanely disposed of, in the reasonable 
exercise of discretion of the enforcement authority, but consistent with such provisions as the animal care 
services board  animal services advisory board  shall make regarding the capture, surrender, impoundment, 
adoption, sale and destruction of animals. No healthy, behaviorally sound, adoptable owner-surrendered animal 
shall be humanely disposed of, while there is sufficient room in the kennel to reasonably house such animal at 
the animal care services shelter. 
 
(b) An animal impounded under this article and that is not claimed by its owner shall be confined by the 
enforcement authority in a humane manner for a period after capture of not less than four (4) days  thirty-two 
(32) business hours. Because the shelter operates 24 hours a day, the four-day hold period applies to each day 
the animal is in the shelter’s care, regardless of weekends or holidays.  An animal not claimed within the 
impoundment period may be kept, adopted, rescued by a humane or breed rescue organization , a member of 
the public, or otherwise humanely disposed of, in the reasonable exercise of discretion of the enforcement 
authority, but consistent with such provisions as the animal services advisory board shall make regarding the 
capture, surrender, impoundment, adoption, sale and destruction of animals. Even after the expiration of the 
impoundment period, no animal shall be humanely disposed of, while there is sufficient room in the kennel to 
reasonably house such animal at the animal care services shelter. 
 
(c) A free-roaming cat that is not spayed or neutered and is eligible for the community cat program is exempt from 
the mandatory four-day thirty-two (32) business hour impoundment period and may be immediately processed 
through the community cat program. 
 
(d) Following the thirty-two (32) business hour impoundment period, a person other than the animal's owner or a 
member of the owner's family who wishes to adopt an impounded animal that has not been claimed, and that 
is otherwise available for adoption, may adopt the animal. It is declared that the adoption of as many animals 
as possible is a priority of the animal care services shelter. Such A person wishing to adopt an animal from the 
animal care services shelter shall pay to the city an adoption fee of sixty dollars ($60.00)fifty dollars ($50.00) 
to cover the enforcement authority's expenses, including the expense of vaccinations; however, with respect to 
a dog or cat that does not bear an identification microchip, the enforcement authority shall cause a microchip 
with a registered identification number to be implanted in the dog or cat prior to the animal's adoption, and the 
adoption fee for such a dog or cat shall be sixty dollars ($60.00) . The foregoing notwithstanding, animal care 
services agency division may, upon the approval of the animal care services board  animal services advisory 
board, set lower fees for adoption for special events, specific circumstances, and limited periods of time which 
shall be designated in advance and clearly defined. Such lowered rates may not be granted for individual 
animals, but may be designated by specified groups of animals. 
 
(e) A dog or cat that has been impounded under this article or is otherwise available for adoption, must be spayed 
or neutered, and microchipped, prior to being released to any person who wishes to adopt the animal. 
 
Sec. 531-733. - Restrictions on return of certain animals. 
 
(a) Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, an animal which has been impounded under this article 
for a violation of sections 531-102 (at large), 531-103 (animals in heat), 531 -109 (animal attacks), 531 -204 
(nuisance), or 531-305 (rabies quarantine), or a violation of either article IV or V, of this chapter, or a violation 
of 531-728 (additional restrictions), or which has been impounded on a prior occasion, or which has bitten or

=== 2024-11-04 minutes, page 29 of 33 ===
November 4, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
33  
otherwise caused injury to person or property shall be returned to its owner only if the enforcement authority 
in its discretion determines that such return will not result in further or ongoing violations of these sections. 
 
(b) If such a determination cannot be made, or article V of this chapter is applicable or the actions of the animal/dog 
have resulted in serious injury to a person, the enforcement authority then shall apply to a court of competent 
jurisdiction for an order to dispose of the animal under the provisions of section 531-731 of this article. 
 
Sec. 531-736. - Capture, holding and maintenance, and disposition of animals by the humane society. 
 
(a) The Humane Society of Indianapolis, Inc., by its duly authorized agents, employees or other personnel, shall 
have the authority to proceed to the scene or location of a diseased, sick or injured animal which is at large in 
the county after being requested to do so by any member of the general public for the purposes of capturing 
and transporting such animal to its duly established humane shelter, and to hold and properly maintain the 
animal until it is either claimed by its owner, or in the discretion of th e humane society, otherwise properly 
disposed of. The humane society may also receive an animal brought to its shelter by members of the general 
public or proper governmental personnel and either keep, or in the discretion of the humane society, otherwise 
humanely dispose of such animal. 
 
(b) Upon the capture of any diseased, sick or injured animal or taking of an animal brought to its shelter by a person 
or any local governmental personnel, the humane society personnel shall make a reasonable attempt to notify 
and inform the owner of the animal of the requirements and procedures for claiming ownership and regaining 
custody thereof. 
 
(c) When the owner of a captured or held animal is discovered or known, the animal shall be returned to the owner 
upon the payment of any applicable fees or upon the compliance with all other applicable procedures of the 
humane society. If the owner does not claim an animal or desires not to claim it, the humane society, within its 
discretion, may return the animal to any person desiring to assume ownership, custody and care thereof in 
conformance with the established requirements of the humane society after a four (4) -day holding period, as 
long as the animal has or will receive a current antirabies vaccination under the provisions of Article III of this 
chapter. 
 
(d) Upon the capture of any diseased, sick or injured animal or the taking of an animal brought to its shelter by any 
person or any local governmental personnel, the humane society shall, subject to the provisions of subsection 
(e) of this section, confine the animal in a humane manner for a period of not less than four (4) days. Thereafter, 
the humane society in its discretion may keep, release or otherwise humanely dispose of the animal consistent 
with the established procedures of the humane society as they may be amended from time to time. 
 
(e) Notwithstanding any provision of this section to the contrary, diseased or injured animals need not be retained 
four (4) days but may be humanely disposed of at any time if in the discretion of the proper humane society 
personnel or authorized veterinarian such disposition is necessary and proper for such animals. 
 
(f) This section does not authorize the humane society to assume any of the impoundment and disposition functions 
of the animal care services agency division as elsewhere specified in this chapter or state law. 
 
(g) Nothing in this section shall inhibit the animal care services agency  division in any way from carrying out its 
functions in accordance with applicable law and whatever provisions or regulations the animal care services 
board city board of public safety  shall make in carrying out its mandate to make provisions to maintain an 
animal care services agency division, to regulate the capture, impoundment, sale and destruction of animals in 
accordance with applicable law, and for the operation of the animal care services agency division. 
 
ARTICLE VIII. - GIFTS AND FINANCING 
 
Sec. 531-811. - Gifts to animal care services division; disposition. 
 
(a) All money generated, received  or collected by virtue of the provisions of this chapter are to be set aside and 
placed in the general fund, except as hereinafter provided.

=== 2024-11-04 minutes, page 30 of 33 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 
 
 
 
 
34 
(b) Gifts or donations to the animal care services agency  division may be accepted by the city controller or the 
mayor, for and on behalf of the animal care services agency division. All moneys received by donations, gifts, 
bequests or devises or otherwise (except as provided in section 531-811(c)) shall be paid to the city controller 
on the first day of the week succeeding the week during which such moneys were received, and deposited into 
a dedicated animal care fund to be used to promote the safe and humane treatment of animals in the city and to 
promote responsible pet ownership, to pay for any reasonable expenses incurred promoting the proper care, 
treatment and sterilization of animals and education of the public regarding the same. No expenditure may be 
made from the dedicated animal care fund unless first approved by a majority of the animal care services board 
animal services advisory board. The expenditure of funds from the dedicated animal care fund shall be subject 
to all state and local appropriation and purchasing requirements. Any funds donated for a specific purpose shall 
be used only consistently with the donor's specific request. 
 
(c) All money generated, received or collected in response to the agency’s division's special fund-raising projects 
shall be payable to the city controller and deposited in a dedicated animal control special projects funds to be 
used in a manner consistent with the announced purpose of any special fund-raising event or project. No 
expenditure may be made from the dedicated animal care special projects fund unless first approved by the 
director or his or her designee administrator as assigned by the deputy director. The expenditure of funds from 
the dedicated animal care special projects fund shall be subject to all state and local appropriation and 
purchasing requirements and appropriated by the city-county council. 
 
(d) The director or his or her designee administrator shall provide the animal care services board  animal services 
advisory board, at each meeting , and to the council every six (6) months a report relating to the revenue and 
expenditures from the dedicated animal care fund and the dedicated animal care special projects fund. 
 
Chapter 836 - KENNEL, PET SHOP AND STABLE REGISTRATIONS 
 
Sec. 836-1. - Definitions. 
 
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section: 
 
Animal rescue organization means a not-for-profit organization having tax-exempt status under 501(c)(3) of the United 
States Internal Revenue Code, whose mission and practice is, in whole or in significant part, the rescue and placement of 
animals into permanent homes. The term animal rescue organization does not include any person that: (1) breeds animals 
for profit; (2) is located on the same premises as a person that breeds animals for profit; (3) has any personnel in common 
with a person that breeds animals for profit; (4) obtains, in exchange for payment or compensation, dogs or cats from a 
person that breeds animals for profit; or (5) facilitates the sale of dogs or cats that were obtained, in exchange for payment 
or compensation, from a person that breeds animals for profit. 
 
Cat means any member of the species Felis catus. 
 
Dog means any member of the species Canis familiaris. 
 
Kennel means a facility operated commercially and principally for the purpose of boarding, housing, breeding or training 
dogs or cats, or both; a kennel, for purposes of this chapter, shall not include a facility in or adjoining a private residence 
where dogs are kept for the hobby of the householder using them for hunting, practice tracking, exhibiting in shows or 
field or obedience trials or for the guarding or protecting of the householder's property, and an occasional sale of puppies 
or kittens by the owner, lessee or other occupant of such property shall not make that property a kennel for the purposes 
of this chapter. 
 
Offer for sale means to proffer for acceptance by another person. 
 
Person shall mean an individual, corporation, partnership, association, or any other entity. 
 
Pet shop means: (1) a facility operated commercially and principally for the purpose of selling animals which, in the 
hands of their immediate purchasers, will be pets; or (2) any retail store where animals are kept, sold, or offered for sale 
on the premises. An a nimal care services shelter, as described in  section 288-103 226-512 of this Code, or an animal 
rescue organization, as defined in this section, shall not be considered a pet shop. 
 
Rabbit means any member of the species Oryctolagus cuniculus domesticus. 
 
Sell means to exchange for consideration, adopt out, barter, auction, trade, lease, or otherwise transfer an animal.

=== 2024-11-04 minutes, page 31 of 33 ===
November 4, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
35  
 
Stable means a facility operated commercially and principally for the purpose of lodging and feeding domestic animals. 
 
Sec. 836-3. - Annual inspection; registration term; renewal. 
 
(a) Prior to the issuance of a certificate of registration or renewal of registration, the license administrator may 
cause an inspection of the kennel, pet shop or stable to be made by the animal care services division to determine 
whether the applicant or registrant is qualified under this chapter. The animal care services agency division 
shall report its findings to the license administrator. 
 
(b) The registration term shall be in accordance with section 801-209 of the Code. 
 
Sec. 836-5. - Requirements for kennels, pet shops and stables; enforcement. 
 
(a) In addition to the registration required by this chapter, all kennels, pet shops and stables in the city shall: 
 
(1) Be operated in such a manner as not to constitute a nuisance; 
 
(2) Provide an isolation ward for boarded animals that are sick or diseased, sufficiently removed so as not to 
endanger the health of other animals; 
 
(3) Keep all boarded animals caged or under the control of the owner or operator of the kennel, pet shop or 
stable; 
 
(4) With respect to all animals in the kennel, pet shop or stable, comply with all the requirements of the Code 
for the general care of animals; and 
 
(5) Comply with all applicable federal, state and local laws, and all applicable regulations adopted by the 
animal care services agency department of business and neighborhood services. 
 
(b) The owner or operator of all kennels and pet shops in the city shall: 
 
(1) At the time of purchase, notify the purchaser of all state and local laws that require an animal kept in the 
city to be vaccinated; 
 
(2) Retain the name, address and telephone number of the owner of each dog or cat boarded, and retain the 
name and address of each person selling, trading or giving any animal to the kennel or pet shop; and 
 
(3) Not sell animals that are unweaned or so young or weak that their sale would be injurious to the animals. 
 
(c) The provisions of this section shall be enforced by the license administrator, and by the animal care services 
agency division as provided in Article VI of Chapter 531 of the Code. 
 
Sec. 836-6. - Prohibition on the retail sale of dogs, cats, or rabbits by pet shops. 
 
(a) It shall be unlawful for a pet shop to sell or offer for sale a dog, cat, or rabbit unless the animal was obtained 
by the pet shop from either an animal services shelter described in section 288-103 226-512 of this Code or an 
animal rescue organization, as defined in section 836-1 and all of the following conditions are met: 
 
(1) All fees or other charges for the sale of a dog, cat or rabbit shall not exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00) 
per animal; and 
 
(2) The pet shop posts in a conspicuous location affixed to the enclosure of each dog, cat or rabbit available 
for sale: the name of and city and state for the animal services shelter or animal rescue organization from 
which the pet store obtained the dog, cat or rabbit. 
 
(b) Maintenance of records.

=== 2024-11-04 minutes, page 32 of 33 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 
 
 
 
 
36 
(1) A pet shop shall maintain records documenting from which animal services shelter or animal rescue 
organization the pet shop obtained each dog, cat or rabbit in the possession of the pet store for not less 
than one year following the date the pet store takes possession of the dog, cat or rabbit. 
 
(2) A pet shop shall make the records maintained under this section available for inspection upon request by 
the animal care services agency department of business and neighborhood services or its designee. 
 
(c) Enforcement and penalties. 
 
(1) This chapter shall be enforced by the animal care services agency  department of business and 
neighborhood services or its designee. 
 
(2) A pet shop that sells or offers for sale a dog, cat, or rabbit in violation of subsection 836-6(a) is subject to 
admission of violation and payment of a civil penalty in an amount provided in section 103-52 of the Code 
for the pet shop's first violation in a twelve -month period. All second and subsequent violations in any 
twelve-month period are subject to the enforcement procedures and penalties provided in section 103-3 of 
this Code, and the fine imposed for any subsequent violation in any twelve-month period shall not be less 
than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). 
 
(3) A pet shop that fails to maintain and provide records in violation of subsection  836-6(b) is subject to 
admission of violation and payment of a civil penalty in an amount provided in section 103-52 of the Code 
for the pet shop's first violation in a twelve -month period. All second and subsequent violations in any 
twelve-month period are subject to the enforcement procedures and penalties provided in section 103-3 of 
this Code, and the fine imposed for any subsequent violation in any twelve-month period shall not be less 
than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). 
 
(4) Any violation under this chapter shall be reported to the license administrator and subject to action 
under chapter 801 of this Code. 
 
(d) Section 836-6 shall take effect on May 1, 2025 for any pet shop registered with the license administrator prior 
to April 1, 2023 
 
SECTION 2.  The expressed or implied repeal or amendment by this ordinance of any other ordinance or part of any 
other ordinance does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the 
effective date of this ordinance.  Those rights, liabilities, and proceedings are continued, and penalties shall be imposed 
and enforced under the repealed or amended ordinance as if this ordinance had not been adopted.  
  
SECTION 3.  Should any provision (section, paragraph, sentence, clause, or any other portion) of this ordinance be 
declared by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, the remaining provision or provisions shall not 
be affected, if and only if such remaining provisions can, without the invalid provision or provisions, be given the effect 
intended by the Council in adopting this ordinance.  To this end the provisions of this ordinance are severable.  
  
SECTION 4.  This ordinance shall be in effect from and after its passage by the Council and compliance with Ind. Code 
§ 36-3-4-14.  
 
ANNOUNCEMENTS AND ADJOURNMENT 
 
The President said that the docketed agenda for this meeting of the Council having been completed, 
the Chair would entertain motions for adjournment. 
 
Councilor Mowery stated that he had been asked to offer the following motions for adjournment: 
 
 by Councilor Osili  in memory of Bishop Anne Byfield, Dr. Paul Terry Batties, Erica 
Nicole Van Cleave and Jocelyn Tandy-Adande. 
 
Councilor Mowery moved the adjournment of this meeting of the Indianapolis City-County 
Council in recognition of and respect for the life and contributions of  Bishop Anne Byfield, Dr. 
Paul Terry Batties, Erica Nicole Van Cleave and Jocelyn Tandy -Adande.  He respectfully asked

=== 2024-11-04 minutes, page 33 of 33 ===
November 4, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
37  
the support of fellow Councilor s.  He further requested that the motion be made a part of the 
permanent records of this body and that a letter bearing the Council seal and the signature of the 
President be sent to the families advising of this action. 
 
There being no further business, and upon motion duly made and seconded, the meeting adjourned 
at 7:50 p.m. 
 
We hereby certify that the above and foregoing is a full, true and complete record of the proceedings 
of the regular concurrent meetings of the City -Council of Indianapolis -Marion County, Indiana, 
and Indianapolis Police, Fire and Solid Waste Collection Special Service District Councils on the 
4th day of November, 2024. 
 
In Witness Whereof, we have hereunto subscribed our signatures, caused the Seal of the City of 
Indianapolis to be affixed. 
 
 
 
 President 
ATTEST: 
 
(SEAL) Clerk of the Council
