=== 2024-08-12 minutes, page 1 of 55 ===
5 
 
 
 
MINUTES OF THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL 
AND 
SPECIAL SERVICE DISTRICT COUNCILS 
OF 
INDIANAPOLIS, MARION COUNTY, INDIANA 
MONDAY, AUGUST 12, 2024 
 
The City -County Council of Indianapolis, Marion County, Indiana and the Indianapolis Police 
Special Service District Council, Indianapolis Fire Special Service District Council and 
Indianapolis Solid Waste Collection Special Service District Council convened in regular 
concurrent sessions, in the Council Chamber of the City-County Building at 7:28 p.m. on Monday, 
August 12, 2024, with Councilor Osili presiding. 
 
Councilor Gibson led the opening prayer and then invited all to join him in the Pledge of Allegiance 
to the Flag. 
 
ROLL CALL 
 
The President instructed the Clerk to take the roll call and requested members to register their 
presence on the voting machine.  The roll call was as follows: 
 
25 YEAS: Allen, Annee, Bain, Barth, Boots, Brown-A, Brown-J, Cahill, Carlino, Delaney, Dilk, 
Evans, Gibson, Graves , Hart, Jones, Lewis, Mascari, McCormick, Mowery, Nielsen, Osili, 
Perkins, Roberts, Robinson 
0 ABSENT:  
 
A quorum of twenty-five members being present, the President called the meeting to order. 
 
OFFICIAL COMMUNICATIONS 
 
President Osili recognized the Honorable Mayor Joseph H. Hogsett, who made the following 
remarks: 
 
President Osili, Leaders Lewis and Mowery, members of the Council:  
 
As some of you no doubt remember, in 2016 the City of  Indianapolis faced a structural deficit in our annual 
budget. This was a considerable obstacle to inherit. But I was confident that  we could overcome it with strong, 
unyielding fiscal discipline. Some 8 years later, I am proud to report that, together as one community, Republicans 
and Democrats alike, we have passed 7 fully balanced, fully funded budgets over 7 consecutive years.  And we have 
managed to do this without a single tax increase in any of those years. These budgets have been met, time and time 
again, with broad bipartisan support—unanimous support even, in 2 particular budget years.  And this fiscal stability 
has opened up many doors for the City  of Indianapolis. We have greatly improved our credit ratings, for  one, 
achieving a Triple AAA Bond Ra ting, and are now able to borrow money for significant investments at a much 
lower cost. This means that the money you dedicate for your neighborhoods  goes much further than ever before.   
You have been taking huge steps forward in our city for some  time now, and, with this year’s budget, I would 
suggest that we have no intention of slowing down. But our 2025 spending plans  are about more than keeping up 
what we’ve been doing.   This coming year is going to be about supporting the people  who got us here in the first 
place. We are going to be investing money in the very people who serve our residents every day—those who have 
made innumerable and immeasurable sacrifices in the past few years and who serve as the backbone of this city. 
 
And that starts with our City’s first responders and frontline workers—selfless individuals who respond to danger 
when called, who brave the storms of winter, who make our City work. During the pandemic, they put their personal

=== 2024-08-12 minutes, page 2 of 55 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 
 
 
 
 
6 
needs on the backburner, and put the needs of our city first. And I know some of these workers are in the room with 
us tonight. Firefighters, IMPD Officers, Sheriff’s Deputies, AFSCME workers, Park Rangers, and Public Defenders. 
Thank you all so much for everything you do for this city.  But I want to offer you all more than just a verbal note 
of appreciation. We are going to be signing new contracts with  nearly all of our employee unions this year to give 
them not just  the equipment, resources, and support they deserve —but the pay increases and benefits t hat their 
families deserve. 
 
Over the last eight years, one of the highest priorities for this  Administration has been public safety. And that 
continues to hold true in this proposed 2025 budget.   Over the last three years, we have committed 150 million 
dollars in ARPA funding to implement our Gun Violence Reduction Strategy—a multilevel, multifaceted plan that 
has paid this city back with significant results. Through the work of our Peacemakers, the many community groups 
who partner with our Office of Public Health and Safety, and of course, the countless hours and heroic moments of 
service dedicated by our public  safety officers, we have made a very real difference. In fact,  over 2022 and 2023, 
we saw a 32% decrease in criminal  homicides in this community—and that number continues to be  trending 
downward in 2024. Effective today, we are down another 8.2% from this same day last year.  But we are not looking 
to ride on the coattails of our previous  successes. We know that there is more work to do, and next  year, we are 
aiming to keep the numbers trending down.  Beyond our community-based efforts, our city’s police department, of 
course, plays a critical role in the safety of our  neighborhoods. And, over the three years of this anti -violence 
strategy, we have leveraged federal dollars to make significant advancements in technology to support our officers.  
Now, our goal is to maximize these improvements by getting  more sworn officers back where they belong: on the 
streets serving and protecting our neighbors. Our goal is simple: make IMPD the best trained and pre-eminent police 
department in the entire country. This budget proposes to continue to have IMPD fully funded at 1743 officers, with 
three recruit classes every year.  We will also continue our efforts to divert those suffering from mental health crises 
from the criminal justice system by  continuing to fund 24/7 staffing of our Clinician -Led Community Response 
Teams in both Downtown and East Districts. In 2025, these teams will ensure that our neighbors are getting the help 
they need rather than a punishment they do not  deserve.  Of course, the City will also invest in the IFD, another 
pillar of our community’s safety. And I’d like to take a moment to recognize the courage displayed by the 4 IFD 
firefighters injured in the line of duty just this month. We will continue to support  the men and women of IFD by 
maintaining the 10-year fleet replacement program, funding a new arson unit, and building new fire stations to better 
support them in service to our community. 
 
To ensure the safety of our streets, we also need to pay special  attention to the streets themselves. We have and 
will continue to  make historic investments in the hundreds of millions of dollars  in our vehicular and pedestrian 
safety infrastructure over the last couple of years. And though these investments have made dramatic changes in the 
lives of many of our residents, we know we need to do more. We need to keep up this work until no one—regardless 
of whether they are driving, biking, or walking  in our streets—loses a family member or neighbor to  preventable 
traffic crashes.  And that is what Vision Zero is all about. It’s a vision of zero  traffic fatalities in Indianapolis. And 
next year, we are taking  steps toward that vision with dedicated funding. This will allow  us to hire a Vision Zero 
administrator who will coordinate with the 15 member task force to develop an action plan. 
 
The proposed 2025 budget will also include significant investments into our city’s public infrastructure. This, of 
course, is no different than years past. Since this administration took office—8 years ago now —we have made 
unprecedented investments in our public infrastructure, even managing to grow  the annual DPW budget from 79 
million dollars in 2016 to more than 200 million in 2024.  Since 2016, the City has added 25 miles of new trails for 
biking, walking, and running. And over the next four years, there will be  an additional 45 miles of trails added to 
our city’s trail systems.   It is vital these pathways are well -kept since they often serve as  connectors between our 
different neighborhoods and commuter  pathways for our residents. We realize how vital these trails are to our 
community, so we are bringing on more full -time trail maintenance staff to care for these critical assets.   And we 
plan to maintain a continued focus on building and maintaining solid public infrastructure as we head into 2025.   
Projects that will begin construction next year include the  2-million-dollar first phase of the Eagle Creek Trail; the 
19-million-dollar two-way conversions of 29th and 30th Streets;  and a major Road Diet project on South Madison 
Avenue.  Thanks to a $50 million Downtown TIF bond introduced alongside this budget proposal, we can keep 
using our  borrowing power to make substantial changes to our Downtown and reserve our budget dollars for 
neighborhood improvements.  In the same way the Signia Hotel by Hilton will transform our skyline, our downtown 
streets will be transformed, as well.   Georgia Street, the main artery for celebrations in our city, is  getting a green 
update. We are also looking forward to the  significant underpass improvements coming to the streets  surrounding 
iconic Union Station. 
 
The proposed 2025 Budget will also include provisions to continue to turn the tide of homelessness in our city—
working to improve the lives of those most vulnerable. Our Tenant  Advocacy Project will continue to help those 
potentially facing eviction, allowing them to remain housed. We will also be  dedicating half a million dollars to

=== 2024-08-12 minutes, page 3 of 55 ===
August 12, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7  
expand our new master leasing program, which will provide affordable housing in the form of apartment units rented 
out by the city at reduced rates. 
 
I am also pleased to share that tonight we are introducing a $25 million fiscal ordinance that will afford each 
councilor the opportunity to fund a $1 million either Indy Parks or DPW  project within your districts.  This gives 
you the power to make the changes you want to see in the neighborhoods you represent.  Notably, should this budget 
be approved, our Animal Care Services will finally separate from Business and Neighborhood Services and become 
its own independent agency. This is long overdue, and our city’s animals—not to mention the workers who devote 
their time to caring for  them—deserve the attention and resources afforded to every other City agency. Equally as  
important, we will be growing the IACS budget by $1 million to cover needed expenses, all in advance of the new 
shelter opening in 2026.  Whether through providing reading programs for our children through Circle City Readers, 
increasing the salary, benefits, and  support offered to our City’s first responders and frontline  employees, or 
improvements to the public safety services that benefit all Indianapolis residents, this 2025 budget proposal is about 
putting people first. 
 
It is in that spirit that I want to conclude these remarks by addressing a concern shared by all of us in this room 
tonight. As has been reported in recent weeks, members of my campaign  and this Administration had to endure 
completely unacceptable and reprehensible conduct engaged in by my former Chief of  Staff. His conduct was a 
betrayal of the trust placed in him as a public official, a betrayal of my trust, and—most importantly—a violation of 
the City’s responsibility to ensure the safety and  well-being of all employees.  To former City of Indianapolis 
employee Caroline Ellert and  former campaign employee Lauren Roberts: I want to tell you  both, and the third 
anonymous individual who also shared her  story, how sorry I am for the harm that has occurred. And I  apologize.  
There are no words to adequately acknowledge the bravery and strength that you have shown by coming forward to 
tell your stories and advocate for systemic change across this City-County enterprise in the way that we protect our 
employees from sex harassment and associated retaliation.  No one can possibly understand the pain that you have 
endured, but know that your decision to speak out for changes to better protect the women and men of this City has 
not been in vain.   When I learned of these allegations, I immediately referred them  to HR professionals and legal 
counsel for investigation. I  followed their advice, and sanctions were imposed. But the end results are not all that 
matters, and accountability does not end with my former Chief of Staff. I want to acknowledge that I  myself fell 
short in two important respects.  First, I regret that two of the women who spoke up about this did not feel heard for 
too long. While it was appropriate and  necessary to rely on HR professionals and legal counsel to  conduct the 
investigations themselves, I should have  communicated earlier and more clearly how seriously I took  these 
allegations as the leader of this City and as an individual.  Second, I take Ms. Ellert and Ms. Roberts to heart when 
they say that they did not feel they had a safe, confidential way of reporting serious misconduct like this.  Over the 
last several days, I have studied the letter they sent seeking systemic changes to our policies, training, and reporting 
processes, and I’m immediately moving to implement greater  protections for the people who serve Indianapolis 
residents in response. 
 
First, while we must maintain respect for the legal processes that ensure employee confidentiality and protect due 
process rights, we can and we must do more to make certain that ALL  employees understand both their rights and 
the City’s obligation to protect them.  This starts with stronger sex harassment and abuse preven tion policies. We 
will absolutely have these policies - and for that matter, our entire Employee Handbook - reviewed and updated by 
a national firm; one without any local ties. We will work collaboratively with all of you on the City-County Council 
to select that firm and direct that work.  In addition, while a primer on sexual harassment protections, policies, and 
reporting is already made available to all new  employees upon their hiring, we will, beginning this year, make  the 
more extensive training historically provided only to supervisors mandatory on a recurring basis for every employee 
of this enterprise. In this way, every single person who serves  this community will know their rights, their 
protections, their reporting obligations, and what to do if god forbid they are one day victimized by this unacceptable 
behavior.  But a workplace where employees are better protected also requires a better reporting system. In a matter 
of days, the City  will roll out an anonymous online reporting form -  a temporar y measure that will ensure an 
anonymous venue is available to all employees as soon as possible while we work to hire a third-party company to 
administer and manage anonymous reporting of abuse of any kind. Procurement of this service will  take time, but 
the process is already in motion.   Fourth, it is incumbent upon us as leaders to ensure every person  who calls the 
City of Indianapolis their employer knows the  availability of and access to free mental health support through our 
Employee Assistance Pr ogram. And all members of our  group health plan have access to additional behavioral 
health services through Marathon Health, which includes visits at a health center, through virtual calls and through 
a mobile app.  But it is not enough to just provide these free services to our employees - we must take steps to ensure 
everyone who works here knows how to access them.

=== 2024-08-12 minutes, page 4 of 55 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 
 
 
 
 
8 
 
Over these last nearly nine years, every single person who serves Indianapolis has been integral to what we have 
achieved together.  We’ve weathered the storms of a global pandemic and the ravages of COVID 19 . . . and we’ve 
come out stronger.  We’ve begun the process of meaningfully addressing a long-overdue reckoning on institutional 
racism … and spurred a recommitment to local government with equity and inclusivity at  its core.  We’ve made 
historic investments in public safety . . . and we’ve made progress in helping make Indianapolis a safer community 
as a result.  In short, we’ve worked together . . . all of us.   With this budget and with these changes to our policies, 
let us continue that important work.  I thank you. 
 
The President thanked Mayor Hogsett for his remarks, and stated that he is looking forward to the 
budget process and working with his fellow Councilors , the administration, and County elected 
officials to provide a budget that meets the needs of the citizens.  President Osili then called on the 
Clerk for the reading of Official Communications.  The Clerk read the following: 
 
TO ALL MEMBERS OF THE CITY -COUNTY COUNCIL AND POL ICE, FIRE AND SOLID WASTE COLLECTION 
SPECIAL SERVICE DISTRICT COUNCILS OF THE CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND MARION COUNTY, INDIANA 
 
Ladies And Gentlemen: 
 
You are hereby notified the REGULAR MEETINGS of the City-County Council and Police, Fire and Solid Waste Collection 
Special Service District Councils will be held in the City-County Building, in the Council Chambers, on Monday, August 
12, 2024, at 7:00 p.m., the purpose of such MEETINGS being to conduct any and all business that may properly come 
before regular meetings of the Councils. 
 
 Respectfully, 
 s/Vop Osili 
 President, City-County Council 
 
July 15, 2024 
 
TO PRESIDENT OSILI AND MEMBERS OF THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL AND POLICE, FIRE AND SOLID WASTE 
COLLECTION SPECIAL SERVICE DISTRICT COUNCILS OF THE CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND MARION COUNTY, 
INDIANA: 
 
Ladies and Gentlemen: 
 
I have approved with my signature and delivered this day to the Clerk of the City-County Council, Yulonda Winfield, the 
following ordinance: 
 
GENERAL ORDINANCE NO. 22, 2024 – amends the Code adding a new Chapter 565 regarding flood damage 
prevention to comply with federal regulations 
 
GENERAL ORDINANCE NO. 23, 2024 – authorizes various traffic control changes to Chapters 441 and 621 of the 
Revised Code in support of a public transportation project being carried out by the Indianapolis Public Transportation 
Corporation (IndyGo) in accordance with IC 8-25 and IC 36-9-4 
 
GENERAL RESOLUTION NO. 21, 2024 – approves a request of the Department of Public Works to purchase certain 
real estate interests for the Bluff Road Reconstruction Project, which property is owned by William J. Sanders, Sr. 
 
GENERAL RESOLUTION NO. 22, 2024 – approves a request of the Department of Public Works to purchase certain 
real estate interests for the Bluff Road Reconstruction Project, which property is owned by Gary and Carla M. Seibert 
 
GENERAL RESOLUTION NO. 23, 2024 – approves a request of the Department of Public Works to purchase certain 
real estate interests for the Bluff Road Reconstruction Project, which prop erty is owned by Scott G. and Elizabeth M. 
Holloway 
 
GENERAL RESOLUTION NO. 24, 2024 – approves a request of the Department of Public Works to purchase certain 
real estate interests for the Bluff Road Reconstruction Project, which property is owned by Benjamin Angelo Kundick 
 
GENERAL RESOLUTION NO. 25, 2024 – approves a request of the Department of Public Works to purchase certain 
real estate interests for the Bluff Road Reconstruction Project, which property is owned by Andy Warren 
 
GENERAL RESOLUTION NO. 26, 2024 – approves a request of the Department of Public Works to purchase certain 
real estate interests for the Bluff Road Reconstruction Project, which property is owned by David O. Fishburn

=== 2024-08-12 minutes, page 5 of 55 ===
August 12, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9  
GENERAL RESOLUTION NO. 27, 2024 – approves a request of the Department of Public Works to purchase certain 
real estate interests for the Rosedale Hills Drainage Improvement Project, which property is owned by the Bishop and 
Council of the Protestant Episcopal Church of the Diocese of Indianapolis 
 
SPECIAL RESOLUTION NO. 19, 2024 – recognizes FACE Low-Cost Animal Clinic 
 
SPECIAL RESOLUTION NO. 20, 2024 - recognizes Noble, Inc. and their commitment to empowering individuals with 
disabilities to achieve their life-affirming dreams and goals 
 
 s/Joseph H. Hogsett, Mayor 
 
ADOPTION OF THE AGENDA 
 
The President proposed the adoption of the agenda as distributed.   
 
Councilor McCormick moved, seconded by Councilor A. Brown, to suspend the Rules of the 
Council and add a new resolution which authorizes  the Rules and Public Policy Committee to 
review the city’s current processes and procedures associated with sexual harassment of city/county 
employees and the training to prevent such.  The motion carried on the following roll call vote; viz: 
 
25 YEAS: Allen, Annee, Bain, Barth, Boots, Brown-A, Brown-J, Cahill, Carlino, Delaney, Dilk, 
Evans, Gibson, Graves, Hart, Jones, Lewis, Mascari, McCormick, Mowery, Nielsen, Osili, 
Perkins, Roberts, Robinson 
0 NAYS:  
 
General Counsel LeAnnette Pierce stated that the resolution will be added to introductions this 
evening as Proposal No. 287, 2024.   
 
Councilor Mowery moved, seconded by Councilor Bain, to suspend the Rules of the Council and 
add a new resolution which forms a committee to investigate allegations against the Mayor’s Office 
concerning the conduct of former Chief of Staff Thomas Cook.  The motion carried on the 
following roll call vote; viz: 
 
22 YEAS: Allen, Annee, Bain, Barth, Boots, Brown-A, Brown-J, Cahill, Carlino, Delaney, Dilk, 
Evans, Gibson, Graves, Hart, Jones, Lewis, Mascari, McCormick, Mowery, Nielsen, Osili, 
Perkins, Roberts, Robinson 
3 NAYS: Brown-A, Gibson, McCormick 
 
General Counsel LeAnnette Pierce stated that the resolution will be added to introductions this 
evening as Proposal No. 288, 2024.   
 
Without further objection, the agenda was adopted as amended. 
 
APPROVAL OF THE JOURNAL 
 
The President called for additions or corrections to the Journals of July 8 , 2024.  There being no 
additions or corrections, the minutes were approved as distributed.

=== 2024-08-12 minutes, page 6 of 55 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 
 
 
 
 
10 
PRESENTATION OF PETITIONS, MEMORIALS, SPECIAL RESOLUTIONS, AND 
COUNCIL RESOLUTIONS 
 
OVERVIEW PRESENTATION ON THE 2025 CITY-COUNTY BUDGET – Sarah Riordan, 
City Controller 
 
Ms. Riordan provide a brief PowerPoint presentation outlining the 2025 Proposed Budget for all 
City and County agencies and departments.  The multi -year strategy focuses on consistently 
balanced budgets, preserved fund balances and balance growth where pos sible, protected and 
improved credit rating, and maintaining or increasing investments in public safety, infrastructure, 
neighborhoods and economic development.  For the 2025 Budget, she noted that it is the eighth 
consecutive balanced budget with strategic investments in our people, public safety, anti-violence, 
infrastructure, traffic safety and quality of life initiatives.  She said that they have used conservative 
revenue estimates while anticipating steady economic growth, and are continuing to commit to no 
tax increases.  She reviewed budget numbers at a top level with graphs charting the percentages 
planned for different areas of government.  She briefly reviewed initiatives in the areas of public 
health and safety, violence prevention, infrastructure and community investment, and the 
Transportation and Stormwater Capital Plans.   
 
President Osili thanked Ms. Riordan for the overview presentation of the 2025 proposed budget.   
 
Councilor Lewis reported that the Metropolitan and Economic Development Com mittee heard 
Proposal Nos. 247-250, 2024 on July 15, 2024.  She asked for consent to vote on these proposals 
together.  Consent was given. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 247, 2024.  The proposal, sponsored by Councilor Lewis, reappoints Peggy 
Frame to the Greater Virginia Avenue Corridor Economic Improvement District Board.  
PROPOSAL NO. 248, 2024.  The proposal, sponsored by Councilor Lewis,  reappoints Kelli 
Mirgeaux to the Greater Virginia Avenue Corridor Economic Improvement District Board.  
PROPOSAL NO. 249, 2024.  The proposal, sponsored by Councilor Lewis, r eappoints Michael 
Taft to the Greater Virginia Avenue Corridor Economic Improvement District Board.  PROPOSAL 
NO. 250, 2024.  The proposal, sponsored by Councilor Lewis, reappoints Brad Vogelsmeier to the 
Greater Virginia Avenue Corridor Economic Improvement District Board.  By  11- 0 vote s, the 
committee reported the proposals to the full Council with the recommendation that they  do pass.  
Councilor Lewis moved, seconded by Councilor McCormick,  for adoption.  Proposal No s. 247-
250, 2024 were adopted on the following roll call vote; viz: 
 
25 YEAS: Allen, Annee, Bain, Barth, Boots, Brown-A, Brown-J, Cahill, Carlino, Delaney, Dilk, 
Evans, Gibson, Graves, Hart, Jones, Lewis, Mascari, McCormick, Mowery, Nielsen, Osili, 
Perkins, Roberts, Robinson 
0 NAYS:  
 
Proposal No. 247, 2024 was retitled COUNCI L RESOLUTION  NO. 52, 2024, and reads as 
follows: 
 
CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL RESOLUTION NO. 52, 2024 
 
A COUNCIL RESOLUTION reappointing Peggy Frame to the Greater Virginia Avenue Corridor Economic Improvement 
District Board. 
 
BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE 
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA:

=== 2024-08-12 minutes, page 7 of 55 ===
August 12, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11  
 
SECTION 1. As a member of the Greater Virginia Avenue Corridor Economic Improvement District Board, the Council 
reappoints:  
 
Peggy Frame 
 
SECTION 2. The appointment made by this resolution is for a term ending June 30, 2027.  The person appointed by this 
resolution shall serve at the pleasure of the Council.  Upon expiration of the term, the appointee may serve until his or 
her successor is appointed and qualifies, for a period not to exceed the holdover duration set by statute. 
 
Proposal No. 248, 2024 was retitled C OUNCIL RESOLUTION  NO. 53, 2024, and reads as 
follows: 
 
CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL RESOLUTION NO. 53, 2024 
 
A COUNCIL RESOLUTION reappointing Kelli Mirgeaux to the Greater Virginia Avenue Corridor Economic Improvement 
District Board. 
 
BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE 
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA: 
 
SECTION 1. As a member of the Greater Virginia Avenue Corridor Economic Improvement District Board, the Council 
reappoints:  
 
Kelli Mirgeaux 
 
SECTION 2. The appointment made by this resolution is for a term ending June 30, 2027.  The person appointed by this 
resolution shall serve at the pleasure of the Council.  Upon expiration of the term, the appointee may serve until his or 
her successor is appointed and qualifies, for a period not to exceed the holdover duration set by statute. 
 
Proposal No. 249, 2024 was retitled COUNCIL RESOLUTION  NO. 54, 2024, and reads as 
follows: 
 
CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL RESOLUTION NO. 54, 2024 
 
A COUNCIL RESOLUTION reappointing Michael Taft to the Greater Virginia Avenue Corridor Economic Improvement 
District Board. 
 
BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE 
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA: 
 
SECTION 1. As a member of the Greater Virginia Avenue Corridor Economic Improvement District Board, the Council 
reappoints:  
 
Michael Taft 
 
SECTION 2. The appointment made by this resolution is for a term ending June 30, 2027.  The person appointed by this 
resolution shall serve at the pleasure of the Council.  Upon expiration of the term, the appointee may serve until his or 
her successor is appointed and qualifies, for a period not to exceed the holdover duration set by statute. 
 
Proposal No. 250, 2024 was retitled COUNCIL RESOLUTION  NO. 55, 2024, and reads as 
follows:

=== 2024-08-12 minutes, page 8 of 55 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 
 
 
 
 
12 
CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL RESOLUTION NO. 55, 2024 
 
A COUNCIL RESOLUTION reappointing Brad Vogelsmeier to the Greater Virginia Avenue Corridor Economic 
Improvement District Board. 
 
BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE 
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA: 
 
SECTION 1. As a member of the Greater Virginia Avenue Corridor Economic Improvement District Board, the Council 
reappoints:  
 
Brad Vogelsmeier 
 
SECTION 2. The appointment made by this resolution is for a term ending June 30, 2027.  The person appointed by this 
resolution shall serve at the pleasure of the Council.  Upon expiration of the  term, the appointee may serve until his or 
her successor is appointed and qualifies, for a period not to exceed the holdover duration set by statute. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 252, 2024.  Councilor Jones reported that the Public Works Committee heard 
Proposal No. 252, 2024 on July 18, 2024.  The proposal, sponsored by Councilors Jones, Nielsen 
and Carlino, appoints Leslie R. Schulte to the Board of Public Works .  By  a 12-0 vote, the 
committee reported the proposal to the full Council with the recommendation that it do pass.  
Councilor Jones moved, seconded by Councilor Carlino, for adoption.  Proposal No. 252, 2024 was 
adopted on the following roll call vote; viz: 
 
25 YEAS: Allen, Annee, Bain, Barth, Boots, Brown-A, Brown-J, Cahill, Carlino, Delaney, Dilk, 
Evans, Gibson, Graves, Hart, Jones, Lewis, Mascari, McCormick, Mowery, Nielsen, Osili, 
Perkins, Roberts, Robinson 
0 NAYS:  
 
Proposal No. 252, 2024 was retitled COUNCIL  RESOLUTION NO. 56, 2024, and reads as 
follows: 
 
CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL RESOLUTION NO. 56, 2024 
 
A COUNCIL RESOLUTION appointing Leslie R. Schulte to the Board of Public Works. 
 
BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE 
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA: 
 
SECTION 1. As a member of the Board of Public Works, the Council appoints:  
 
Leslie R. Schulte 
 
SECTION 2. The appointment made by this resolution is for a term ending December 31, 2024.  The person appointed 
by this resolution shall serve at the pleasure of the Council.  Upon expiration of the term, the appointee may serve until 
his or her successor is appointed and qualifies, for a period not to exceed the holdover duration set by statute. 
 
INTRODUCTION OF PROPOSALS 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 253, 2024. Introduced by Councilor  Mascari.  The Clerk read the proposal 
entitled:  "A Proposal for a Council Resolution which reappoints Marion Faye Godwin to the Equal 
Opportunity Advisory Board"; and the President referred it to the Adminis tration and Finance 
Committee. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 254, 2024. Introduced by Councilor  Mascari.  The Clerk read the proposal 
entitled:  "A Proposal for a Council Resolution which r eappoints Doug Huntsinger to the Equal

=== 2024-08-12 minutes, page 9 of 55 ===
August 12, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
13  
Opportunity Advisory Board"; and the Preside nt referred it to the Administration and Finance 
Committee. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 255, 2024. Introduced by Councilor  Mascari.  The Clerk read the proposal 
entitled:  "A Proposal for a Special Ordinance which authorizes the issuance of Indiana 
Redevelopment District Tax Increment Revenue Bonds in a maximum aggregate principal amount 
not to exceed $60,000,000, with a maximum term not to exceed twenty five years, and ordinary 
interest at a rate not to exceed 8%.), for the purpose of providing funds for paying all or a  portion 
of (i) the costs of the infrastructure Projects and any projects related to the improvements described 
in the Ordinance; (ii) capitalized interest (if necessary); (iii) a debt service reserve (if necessary) 
and (vi) all incidental expenses incurred on account of the issuance of the bonds"; and the President 
referred it to the Administration and Finance Committee. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 256, 2024. Introduced by Councilor s Barth, Osili and Roberts.  The Clerk read 
the proposal entitled:  "A Proposal for a General Ordinance which amends the Revised Code to add 
a new Chapter 288, Animal Care Services Agency"; and the President referred it to the Metropolitan 
and Economic Development Committee. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 257, 2024. Introduced by Councilor Osili.  The Clerk read the proposal entitled:  
"A Proposal for a Special Ordinance which refers the Department of Public Works' 
recommendation regarding an application by 16 Tech Community Corporation for a public right -
of-way user franchise to install, construct, maintain, r epair, and operate underground fiber 
infrastructure to the Council's Public Works Committee for review and determination of whether 
the franchise should be granted per Sec. 645- 224 and -255 of the Revised Code, and; should said 
Committee determine that the franchise should be awarded, to approve and confirm the grant of a 
public right-of-way user franchise to 16 Tech Community Corporation per Sec. 645- 228 of the 
Revised Code and authorize the execution of a franchise contract between the City of Indianapolis 
and 16 Tech Community Corporation"; and the President referred it to the Public Works 
Committee. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 258, 2024. Introduced by Councilor Jones.  The Clerk read the proposal entitled:  
"A Proposal for a General Resolution which authorizes the issuance of up to $20 Million of revenue 
refunding bonds for the purposes of procuring funds to apply to the refunding of outstanding 2011 
and 2013 revenue bonds of the Stormwater District, through the Marion County Stormwater 
Management District, as a special taxing district existing pursuant to IC 36- 3-5-8, to effectuate a 
savings and debt service advantages; and approves and authorizes other actions in respect thereto"; 
and the President referred it to the Public Works Committee. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 259, 2024. Introduced by Councilor  McCormick.  The Clerk read the proposal 
entitled:  "A Proposal for a General Resolution which approves a request of the Department of 
Public Works to purchase certain real estate interests for the Girls Schoo l Road, from Perimeter 
Road to 21st Street Project, which property is owned by Arkadia Leasing and Management, LLC"; 
and the President referred it to the Public Works Committee. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 260, 2024. Introduced by Councilor  Robinson.  The Clerk read the  proposal 
entitled:  "A Proposal for a Council Resolution which appoints Emily Reuben to the Assessment 
Intervention Center Advisory Board"; and the President referred it to the Public Safety and Criminal 
Justice Committee.

=== 2024-08-12 minutes, page 10 of 55 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 
 
 
 
 
14 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 261, 2024. Introduced by Councilors Robinson, Osili, A. Brown and Lewis.  The 
Clerk read the proposal entitled:  "A Proposal for a Police Special Service District Fiscal Ordinance 
which approves the tax levy and rate for the Police Special Service District for 2025"; and th e 
President referred it to the Public Safety and Criminal Justice Committee. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 262, 2024. Introduced by Councilors Robinson, A. Brown, Lewis and Osili.  The 
Clerk read the proposal entitled:  "A Proposal for a Fire Special Service District Fiscal Ordinance 
which approves the tax levy and rate for the Fire Special Service District for 2025"; and the 
President referred it to the Public Safety and Criminal Justice Committee. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 263, 2024. Introduced by Councilor s Jones, Osili, A . Brown and Lewis.  The 
Clerk read the proposal entitled:  "A Proposal for a Solid Waste Collection Special Service District 
Fiscal Ordinance which approves the tax levy and rate for the Solid Waste Collection Special 
Service District for 2025"; and the President referred it to the Public Works Committee. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 264, 2024. Introduced by Councilors Osili, A. Brown and Lewis.  The Clerk read 
the proposal entitled:  "A Proposal for a Fiscal Ordinance which adopts the annual budget for the 
City of Indianapolis and Marion County for 2025"; and the President referred it to the Various 
Committee. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 279, 2024. Introduced by Councilor Osili.  The Clerk read the proposal entitled:  
"A Proposal for a General Resolution which approves a declaratory resolution of the Metropolitan 
Development Commission: (i) amending the City Market Redevelopment Area; (ii) removing 
parcels of real property from the City Market North Allocation area; (iii) designating the Gold 
Building Allocation Area as an allocation area within the City Market Redevelopment Area; and 
(iii) adopting associated amendments to the redevelopment plan for the City Market 
Redevelopment Area"; and the President referred it to the Metropolitan and Economic 
Development Committee. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 280, 2024. Introduced by Councilor Osili.  The Clerk read the proposal entitled:  
"A Proposal for a General Ordinance which amends Chapter 192, Entitled Compensation, of the 
Revised Code to adjust the salaries of elected officials"; and the President r eferred it to the 
Administration and Finance Committee. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 281, 2024. Introduced by Councilor Jones.  The Clerk read the proposal entitled:  
"A Proposal for a Fiscal Ordinance which approves an additional appropriation of $1,500,000 in 
the 2024 Budget for the City Non-Departmental in the Flood Control District Bonds Fund for the 
purpose of supporting the payoff of interest costs of the 2021 Stormwater Revenue Notes of the 
Marion County Stormwater District"; and the President referred it to the Public Works Committee. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 282, 2024. Introduced by Councilor Osili.  The Clerk read the proposal entitled:  
"A Proposal for a Special Ordinance which amends a prior bond ordinance authorizing the issuance 
of Indiana, Economic Development Tax Incr ement Revenue Bonds in a maximum aggregate 
principal amount not to exceed $19,500,000 for Phase I, and $6,500,000 for Phase II, for the 
purpose of providing funds to pay a portion of the costs of the City Market Redevelopment Project, 
and approves and authorizes other actions in respect thereto"; and the President referred it to the 
Administration and Finance Committee.

=== 2024-08-12 minutes, page 11 of 55 ===
August 12, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
15  
PROPOSAL NO. 283, 2024. Introduced by Councilors A. Brown, Lewis, Mascari, Carlino, Jones, 
Osili and Gibson.  The Clerk read the proposal entitled:  "A Proposal for a Fiscal Ordinance which 
approves an additional appropriation totaling $25,000,000 in the 2024 Budget for the Department 
of Public Works and the Department of Parks and Recreation in the Capital Asset Lifecycle and 
Development Fund for the purpose of financing local public improvements for transportation and 
recreational infrastructure"; and the President referred it to the Public Works Committee. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 284, 2024. Introduced by Councilors Bain and McCormick.  The Clerk read the 
proposal entitled:  "A Proposal for a General Ordinance which amends Chapter 151, Article XI, 
Ethics Code for Councilors, of the Revised Code"; and the President referred it to the Ethics 
Committee. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 287, 2024. Introduced by Councilor  McCormick.  The Clerk read the proposal 
entitled:  "A Proposal for a General Resolution which authorizes the Rules and Public Policy 
Committee to review the city’s current processes and procedures associated with sexual harassment 
of city/county employees and the training to prevent such"; and the President referred it to the Rules 
and Public Policy Committee. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 28 8, 2024. Introduced by Councilor s Mowery, Annee, Bain, Cahill, Dilk and 
Hart.  The Clerk read the proposal entitled:  "A Proposal for a Council Resolution which forms a 
committee to investigate allegations against the Mayor’s Office concerning the conduct of former 
Chief of Staff Thomas Cook"; and the President referred it to the Rules and Public Policy  
Committee. 
 
SPECIAL ORDERS- PRIORITY BUSINESS 
 
PROPOSAL NOS. 265-267, 2024, PROPOSAL NO. 269, 2024, PROPOSAL NOS. 270-276, 2024, 
AND PROPOSAL NOS. 277-278, 2024.  Introduced by Councilor Lewis.  Proposal Nos. 265-267, 
2024, Proposal No. 269, 2024, Proposal Nos. 270-276, 2024, and Proposal Nos. 277-278, 2024 are 
proposals for Rezoning Ordinances certified for approval by the Metropolitan Development 
Commission on July 10, 9, 30 and August 1, 2024, respect ively.  The President called f or any 
motions for public hearings on any of those zoning maps changes .  There being no motions for 
public hearings, the proposed ordinances, pursuant to IC 36-7-4-608, took effect as if adopted by 
the City-County Council, were retitled for identification as REZONING ORDINANCE NOS. 81- 
, 2024, the original copies of which ordinances are on file with the Metropolitan Development 
Commission, which were certified as follows: 
 
REZONING ORDINANCE NO. 81, 2024. 
2024-ZON-058  
2701 Hunter Road (Approximate Address) 
Warren Township, Council District #20 
Midland Investments, LLC., by David Gilman 
Rezoning of 4.59 acres from the D-A district to the I-1 district to provide for restricted industrial uses. 
 
REZONING ORDINANCE NO. 82, 2024. 
2024-ZON-061  
2013 Yandes Street (Approximate Address) 
Center Township, Council District #13 
Jason Blankenship, by Mark and Kim Crouch 
Rezoning of 0.13-acre from the I-3 district to the D-8 district to provide for residential uses.

=== 2024-08-12 minutes, page 12 of 55 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 
 
 
 
 
16 
 
REZONING ORDINANCE NO. 83, 2024. 
2024-CZN-819  
8215 West Washington Street (Approximate Address) 
Wayne Township, Council District #17 
Site 3 West, LLC, by Joseph D. Calderon 
Rezoning of 2.7 acres from the SU-46 district to the I-1 district for light industrial uses. 
 
REZONING ORDINANCE NO. 84, 2024. 
2022-CZN-847 
2619, 2625 and 2627 West Washington Street (Approximate Addresses) 
Wayne Township, Council District #16 
Purewal Holdings, Inc., by David Kingen and Emily Duncan 
Rezoning of 0.39 acre from the C-4 (TOD) district to the MU-2 (TOD) district to provide for mixed-use 
development. 
 
REZONING ORDINANCE NO. 85, 2024. 
2024-ZON-029  
9401 and 9415 East Southport Road, and 9404 and 9510 East McGregor Road (Approximate Addresses)  
Franklin Township, Council District #25  
Lennar Homes of Indiana, LLC., by Brian J. Tuohy 
Rezoning of 112.2 acres from the D-A (FF) and D-1 (FF) districts to the D-4 district to provide for single-
family residential development. 
 
REZONING ORDINANCE NO. 86, 2024. 
2024-ZON-044 (Amended) 
918 East 27th Street, 2735, 2739, 2743, 2747, 2751, 2752 and 2755 Guilford Avenue, 820 East 27th Street, 
2708, 2712, 2716, 2720, 2724, 2728, 2732, 2736, PROP NO. 271, 2024 2740, 2744, 2748, 2752, and 
2756 Winthrop Avenue (even) (Approximate Addresses)  
Center Township, Council District #8 
Historic Grandview LLC, by Paul J Lambie 
Rezoning of 2.96 acres from the D-5 district to the D-8 district for residential development.  
 
REZONING ORDINANCE NO. 87, 2024. 
2024-ZON-065  
132 North Belmont Avenue (Approximate Address)  
Center Township, Council District #18 
Rezoning of 0.18-acre from the C-3 (TOD) district to the D-5 (TOD) district to provide for residential 
uses. 
 
REZONING ORDINANCE NO. 88, 2024. 
2024-ZON-067 
1502 Dunlap Avenue (Approximate Address)  
Wayne Township, Council District #17 
Jonathan Brown, by Matthew Peyton 
Rezoning of 0.643-acre from the D-3 district to the D-5 district to provide for residential uses. 
 
REZONING ORDINANCE NO. 89, 2024. 
2024-ZON-068  
2327 Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Street (Approximate Address)   
Center Township, Council District #12 
Socorro Solutions 71010 LLC, by Jynell D Berkshire 
Rezoning of 0.12-acre from the C-1 (W-5) district to the D-8 (W-5) district to provide for residential uses.  
 
REZONING ORDINANCE NO. 90, 2024. 
2024-CZN-823  
605 South High School Road (Approximate Address)  
Wayne Township, Council District #17 
City of Indianapolis, Department of Parks and Recreation, by Kate Warpool 
Rezoning of 6.255 acres from the D-3 district to the PK-1 district.

=== 2024-08-12 minutes, page 13 of 55 ===
August 12, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
17  
REZONING ORDINANCE NO. 91, 2024. 
2024-CZN-825  
1641 Cornell Avenue (Approximate Address)   
Center Township, Council District #13 
Indy Opportunity Fund, LLC, by Dale W. Pfeifer 
Rezoning of 0.12-acre from the I-3 district to the D-8 district to provide for residential uses. 
 
REZONING ORDINANCE NO. 92, 2024. 
2024-ZON-014 (Amended) 
7125 Wellingshire Boulevard (Approximate Address)  
Perry Township, Council District #22 
Rezoning of 18.73 acres from the D-P (FF) (W-1) district to the D-P (FF) (W-1) district to revise the list of 
permitted uses for Parcel 2 of the Southern Dunes (formerly W ellingshire) Planned Unit Development.  
Permitted uses would be as follows: 
Parcel 2 (7125 Wellingshire Boulevard) Public, Institutional, Religious and Civic Uses, Medical or Dental 
Offices, Centers or Clinics, Animal Care, Boarding, Veterinarian Services, Artisan Food and Beverage, 
Farmers Market, Financial and Insurance Services, Hair and Body Care Salon or Service, Bar or Tavern, 
Eating Establishment or Food Preparation (any type), Indoor Recreation and Entertainment, Hotel, Motel, 
Offices (Business, Professional or Government), Outdoor Recreation and Entertainment, Grocery Store, 
Liquor Store, Retail, Light and Heavy General, Automobile and Light Vehicle Wash, Automobile, 
Motorcycle, Light Vehicle Service or Repair, Vehicle Charging Station and other Accessory Uses. 
 
REZONING ORDINANCE NO. 93, 2024. 
2024-ZON-055  
1010 East 86th Street, and 8685 and 8699 Guilford Avenue (Approximate Addresses)   
Washington Township, Council District #2 
TM Crowley and Associates, LLC, by Joseph D. Calderon 
Rezoning of 7.18 acres from the D-2 and C-1 Districts to the D-P District, to provide for single-family 
attached dwellings, multi-family dwellings, commercial office, and retail uses, including restaurants, day 
care center or nursery school, community center, financial services, and other light general retail uses. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 268, 2024.  Introduced by Councilor Lewis.  Proposal No. 268, 2024 is a proposal 
for Rezoning Ordinance certified by the Metropolitan Development Commission for denial on July 
10, 2024.  The President called for any motions for public hearings on this zoning maps change.  
There being no motions for public hearings, the proposed ordinance, pursuant to IC 36- 7-4-608, 
was denied by the City- County Council, the original copy of which ordinance is on file with the 
Metropolitan Development Commission, which was certified as follows: 
 
2023-ZON-106 (Amended) 
2620 and 2710 Wicker Road (Approximate Addresses) 
Perry Township, Council District #22 
Reid Litwack, by Joseph D. Calderon 
Rezoning of 6.39 acres from the D-A (W-1) district to the I-1 (W-1) district to provide for an industrial 
business park. 
 
SPECIAL ORDERS - PUBLIC HEARING 
 
President Osili called on General Counsel LeAnnette Pierce to review the ground rules for public 
testimony as adopted by this body.  Ms. Pierce reminded Council members and the public of the 
ground rules for the public comment portion of the agenda.  She said that in order for everyone to 
have a fair chance to speak and be heard, it is important to observe the following rules.  First, each 
speaker will be limited to two minutes.  Second, any public comments must reasonably relate to 
the agenda item under consideration.  Third, speakers who stray from the item under consideration 
or become unduly repetitious may be asked to move on to their next point or conclude their

=== 2024-08-12 minutes, page 14 of 55 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 
 
 
 
 
18 
comments.  Finally, attendees who cause disruptions that prevent the Council from proceeding 
through today’s agenda in a reasonably efficient manner will be removed.  Ms. Pierce added that 
some types of threatening speech or incitement to violence are not protected by the First 
Amendment and will be dealt with if they come up.  President Osili called for consent to adopt the 
ground rules for public testimony, and consent was given. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 189, 2024.  The proposal, sponsored by Councilor Lewis, is a rezoning ordinance 
for Center Township, District 18, 1170 Kentucky Avenue (2024- ZON-012) certified for 
APPROVAL by the Metropolitan Development Commission on May 21, 2024.  At a meeting of 
the Full Council on June 3, 2024, Councilor Jones moved to schedule the rezoning for a public 
hearing.  Councilor Jones made the following motion:   
 
Mr. President:   
 
On July 17th, at the MDC’s regularly scheduled meeting, the commission acknowledged the withdrawal of Rezoning Case 
2024-ZON-012.  Because the case no longer exists, there is not a need for a public hearing.  If there are no questions or 
comments from my fellow councilors, I recommend that we by consent acknowledge the withdrawal of Rezoning Case 2024-
ZON-012, Proposal No. 189, 2024.   
 
Proposal No. 189, 2024 was withdrawn by unanimous consent.   
 
PROPOSAL NO. 206, 2024.  Councilor Mascari reported that the Administration and Finance 
Committee heard Proposal No. 206, 2024 on July 16, 2024.  The proposal, sponsored by Councilor 
Mascari, amends Special Ordinance No. 9, 2021, relating to the approval of the execution of a lease 
with the Indianapolis-Marion County Building Authority, for a new animal care shelter facility.  By 
a 9-0 vote, the committee reported the proposal to the full Council with the recommendation that it 
do pass as amended.   
 
The President called for public testimony at 8:41  p.m.  There being no one present to testify, 
Councilor Mascari moved, seconded by Councilor Jones,  for adoption.  Proposal No. 206, 2024 
was adopted on the following roll call vote; viz: 
 
25 YEAS: Allen, Annee, Bain, Barth, Boots, Brown-A, Brown-J, Cahill, Carlino, Delaney, Dilk, 
Evans, Gibson, Graves, Hart, Jones, Lewis, Mascari, McCormick, Mowery, Nielsen, Osili, 
Perkins, Roberts, Robinson 
0 NAYS:  
 
Proposal No. 206, 2024 was retitled SPECIAL ORDINANCE NO. 6, 2024, and reads as follows: 
 
CITY-COUNTY SPECIAL ORDINANCE NO. 6, 2024 
 
A SPECIAL ORDINANCE supplementing and amending Special Ordinance No. 9, 2024, relating to the approval of the 
execution of a lease with the Indianapolis-Marion County Building Authority for a new animal care shelter facility.   
 
WHEREAS, the Indianapolis -Marion County Building Authority (the "Building Authority") has been created 
pursuant to Indiana Code  36-9-13, as amended, an independent municipal corporation for the purpose of, among other 
things, financing government buildings and systems for lease to " eligible entities" (as such term is defined in Indiana 
Code 36-9-13-1, as amended) within Marion County, Indiana; and 
 
WHEREAS, the Consolidated City of Indianapolis, Indiana, as such term is defined in Indiana Code 36-3 -1-4 (the 
"City") and Marion County, Indiana, as established in Indiana Code 36-2-1-1 (the "County"), are eligible entities pursuant 
to Indiana Code 36-9-13-1, as amended; and

=== 2024-08-12 minutes, page 15 of 55 ===
August 12, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
19  
WHEREAS, on September 13, 2021, the City-County Council of the City of Indianapolis and of Marion County, 
Indiana (the "City-County Council") adopted its Special Ordinance No. 9, 2021 (the "Original Ordinance"), pursuant to 
which, among other things, the City-County Council approved and authorized the execution of a Lease (the "Lease") 
between the City and/or the County, as lessee, and the Building Authority, as lessor, for the purpose of financing the 
acquisition, construction, installation and equipping of a p roposed new animal care shelter, dog park and livestock area 
and any costs for projects related or ancillary thereto (the "Project"); and 
 
WHEREAS, the notice of public hearing on the Lease and the notice of approval of the Lease published in 
connection with the initial approval of the Lease by the City-County Council provided that the Project was to be generally 
located at the intersection of East Michigan Street and North Sherman Drive in Indianapolis; and 
 
WHEREAS, the City has now determined that the Project should instead be generally located at the Southwest 
corner of Raymond Street and Emerson Avenue, and therefore the City-County Council desires to re-approve the Lease 
to reflect the change in the proposed location of the Project; and  
 
WHEREAS, a notice of public hearing relating to a change in the proposed location of the Project being leased 
pursuant to the Lease was given by publication in the Indianapolis Star  and the Indianapolis Business Journal, and said 
hearing has been held in accordance with said notice; and 
 
WHEREAS, the City-County Council has concluded, following the public hearing described above, that the Project 
is necessary and desirable and will be of general benefit to the residents of the City and the County; and 
 
WHEREAS, the Project and the entering into the Lease with the Building Authority for purposes of financing the 
Project, together with expenses incurred in connection therewith, including capitalized interest, if necessary, the funding 
of a debt service reserve, if necessary, and the costs of the issuance of bonds therefor, are necessary and will be of general 
benefit to the City and the County and their taxpayers; and 
 
WHEREAS, except as provided in this Ordinance, the findings, provisions and terms set forth in the Original 
Ordinance shall remain in full force and effect; now, therefore: 
 
BE IT ORDAINED, BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE 
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA: 
 
SECTION 1. A need exists for the Project and the funds needed therefor exceed the funds presently available to the 
City and the County. 
 
SECTION 2. The City -County Council hereby makes and confirms the findings described in the preambles to this 
Ordinance and re-confirms the findings made in the Original Ordinance. 
 
SECTION 3. The Lease with the Building Authority, as lessor, as amended to reflect a change in the proposed location 
of the Project to the Southwest corner of Raymond Street and Emerson Avenue, provides for a fair and reasonable basis 
for determining the lease rentals thereunder, and, further, the execution of the Lease is necessary and in the best interests 
of the City and/or the County. 
 
SECTION 4. As soon as can be done after the passage of this Ordinance, the Lease (in the form approved as part of the 
Original Ordinance, provided that the location of the Project shall be updated as set forth in Section 3 hereof) shall be 
executed by the Mayor, as executive of the City and/or the County (the "Mayor"), and attested by the Clerk of the City-
County Council (the "Clerk") and/or the Auditor of the County (the "Auditor"), and a notice of the approval of the Lease 
under Indiana Code 36-9-13-28 shall be published according to law. 
 
SECTION 5. The preliminary drawings, plans, specifications and cost estimates for the Projects shall be submitted to 
the City and the County and approved by the Mayor prior to the execution of the Lease, and such plans and specifications 
shall be submitted to the various governmental agencies as required by law upon their final approval by the Mayor. 
 
SECTION 6. The City -County Council agrees not to rescind this Ordinance for so long as any of the Bonds are 
outstanding.  The City-County Council further agrees not to amend this Ordinance in any manner that will affect or impair 
any of the rights of the holders of any outstanding Bonds.

=== 2024-08-12 minutes, page 16 of 55 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 
 
 
 
 
20 
SECTION 7. This Ordinance shall be deemed to supplement and amend the Original Ordinance to reflect a change in 
the location of the Project as set forth herein.  Except for the supplements and amendments to the Original Ordinance set 
forth herein, the Original Ordinance shall remain in full force and effect. 
 
SECTION 8. This Ordinance shall be in full force and effect after its adoption by the City-Co unty Council and 
compliance with Indiana Code 36-3-4-14, Indiana Code 36-3-4-15 and Indiana Code 36-3-4-16. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 209, 2024.  Councilor A. Brown reported that the Municipal Corporations 
Committee heard Proposal No. 209, 2024 on July 10, 2024.  The proposal, sponsored by Councilor 
A. Brown, approves the appropriation of proceeds and investment earnings of the Indianapolis-
Marion County Public Library General Obligation Bonds, in an original aggregate principal amount 
not to exceed $6,350,000, for the  purpose of financing all or any portion of the 2024 Long- Term 
Capital Maintenance and Equipment Update Project .  By  12-0 vote, the committee reported the 
proposal to the full Council with the recommendation that it do pass.   
 
The President called for public testimony at 8:43 p.m.   
 
A constituent who did not indicate his name said that he is encouraged to see  federal funds being 
used for libraries and schools, but he is not encouraged about using federal funds  for genocide in 
far-off countries.  Councilor Mowery called for a point of order and stated that these comments are 
not germane to the proposal.   
 
Former Councilor Ethan  Evans said that he is in favor of funding public libraries, where 
information can be found regarding ceasefires and other genocide-related international incidents.  
Councilor Mowery again called for a point of order.  President Osili asked for the public to keep 
their comments germane to the proposal.  Mr. Evans said that the rules were changed recently 
regarding public comments to disallow the public to speak freely.  Councilor Osili ruled Mr. Evans’ 
remarks out of order, as they were not germane to the proposal.  
 
Eli Morey, citizen, said that the government should be using funds to secure a ceasefire with Israel 
and Hamas.  President Osili stated that the Council is only accepting comments related to Proposal 
No. 209, 2024, and he urged citizens not to come to the microphone if their comments are not 
germane to this proposal.  He asked sheriff deputies to clear the room of those who are shouting 
and causing disruption and waving signs.   
 
Stephen Land, citizen, said that he was a librarian who served on the public library bord, and was 
unceremoniously kicked off the board; even though this body did not remove the chair of the board 
when asked to do so by the public numerous times.  He said that this body serves their own narrow 
interests and the libraries do not need their input.   
 
Two other citizens who did not identify themselves by name made remarks asking the Council to 
stop funding genocide and stop funding the Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Depart ment.  
President Osili ruled these remarks out of order as not germane to Proposal No. 209, 2024. 
 
Councilor J. Brown said that this body is denying its citizens their First Amendment rights by not 
allowing them to speak.  President Osili said that he is allowing public testimony as per the Rules 
of the Council, but he will not allow individuals to disrupt this meeting.  Councilor Perkins 
suggested a short break be taken to clear the room. 
 
Councilor Lewis moved, seconded by Councilor McCormick, for a five-minute recess.  The motion 
carried by a voice vote, and the meeting was recessed at 8:54 p.m.

=== 2024-08-12 minutes, page 17 of 55 ===
August 12, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
21  
 
President Osili reconvened the meeting of the City-County Council at 8:59 p.m.   
 
Councilor J. Brown stated that under the First Amendment, the Council does not get to decide what 
comments are relevant to any given proposal.  And although this body changed the Rules for public 
comment, it is contradictory to the First Amendment.  President Osili said that for now, those are 
the Rules in place, and the Rules this body will abide by.  He added that if Councilor Brown is 
interested in changing those Rules, he can discuss amendments with the Office of Corporation 
Counsel or General Counsel Pierce.   
 
Councilor Carlino clarified that these funds for the library are actually from bond proceeds and are 
not federal funds.   
 
With no further testimony, Councilor Carlino moved, seconded by Councilor McCormick, for 
adoption.  Proposal No. 209, 2024 was adopted on the following roll call vote; viz: 
 
24 YEAS: Allen, Annee, Bain, Barth, Boots, Brown-A, Brown-J, Cahill, Carlino, Delaney, Dilk, 
Evans, Gibson, Graves, Hart, Jones, Lewis, Mascari, McCormick, Mowery, Nielsen, Osili, 
Perkins, Roberts 
1 NOT VOTING:  Robinson 
0 NAYS: Robinson 
 
Proposal No. 209, 2024 was retitled SPECIAL ORDINANCE NO. 7, 2024, and reads as follows: 
 
CITY-COUNTY SPECIAL ORDINANCE NO. 7, 2024 
 
A SPECIAL ORDINANCE approving the appropriation of proceeds and investment earnings thereon of “Indianapolis -
Marion County Public Library General Obligation Bonds (2024 Long-Term Capital Maintenance and Equipment Update 
Project), Series 2024” in an original aggregate principal amount not to exceed Six Million Three Hundred Fifty Thousand 
Dollars ($6,350,000), for the purpose of financing all or any portion of the 2024 Long -Term Capital Maintenance and 
Equipment Update Project. 
 
WHEREAS, on June 24, 2024, the Library Board (the “Library Board”) of the Indianapolis -Marion County Public 
Library, Indiana (the “Public Library”), adopted Resolution 26- 2024 (the “2024 Long- Term Capital Maintenance and 
Equipment Update Project Resolution”) authorizing the issuance of one or more series of general obligation bonds of the 
Public Library to be designated as the “Indianapolis -Marion County Public Library General Obligation Bonds (2024 
Long-Term Capital Maintenance and Equipment Update Project), Series 2024” (collectively, the “2024 Long- Term 
Capital Maintenance and Equipment Update Project  Bonds”), in an original aggregate principal amount not to exceed 
Six Million Three Hundred Fifty Thousand Dollars ($6,350,000) , for the purpose of procuring funds (a) to pay for the 
2024 Long-Term Capital Maintenance and Equipment Update Project (as defined in the 2024 Long-Term Capital 
Maintenance and Equipment Update Project Resolution) and costs related thereto, and (b) to pay the costs of issuance of 
the 2024 Long-Term Capital Maintenance and Equipment Update Project Bonds; and 
 
WHEREAS, on June 24, 2024, the Library Board adopted Resolution 25-2024, appropriating a sum not to exceed 
Six Million Three Hundred Fifty Thousand Dollars ($6,350,000), out of the proceeds of the 2024 Long-Term Capital 
Maintenance and Equipment Update Project Bonds, together with all investment earnings thereon, for the purpose of 
paying all or a portion of the costs of the 2024 Long-Term Capital Maintenance and Equipment Update Project; and 
 
WHEREAS, the Library Board has requested the approval of the City-County Council, pursuant to Indiana Code § 
6-1.1-18-5(j), as amended, of the approval of the additional appropriation of the proceeds of the 2024 Long-Term Capital 
Maintenance and Equipment Update Project Bonds and investment earnings thereon in an amount not to exceed 
$6,350,000 for the 2024 Long-Term Capital Maintenance and Equipment Update Project, and the  City-County Council 
now finds that such appropriation should be approved; and

=== 2024-08-12 minutes, page 18 of 55 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 
 
 
 
 
22 
WHEREAS, notice of a hearing on said appropriations has been published as required by law; and 
 
WHEREAS, such public hearing on said appropriations has been held on the date he reof at this location and prior 
to consideration of this Ordinance at which all taxpayers and interested persons had an opportunity to appear and express 
their views as to such additional appropriations; now, therefore: 
 
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE 
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA: 
 
SECTION 1.  The City-County Council does hereby approve the appropriation of a sum not to exceed Six Million Three 
Hundred Fifty Thousand Dollars ($6,350,000) out of the procee ds of the 2024 Long -Term Capital Maintenance and 
Equipment Update Project Bonds together with all investment earnings (the “2024 Long-Term Capital Maintenance and 
Equipment Update Project Appropriation”), all of which sum shall be for the use of the Public Library in paying all or a 
portion of the costs of the 2024 Long-Term Capital Maintenance and Equipment Update Project.   
 
SECTION 2.  The 2024 Long-Term Capital Maintenance and Equipment Update Project Appropriation shall be in 
addition to all appropriations provided for in the existing budget and levy of the Public Library, and shall continue in 
effect until the completion of the 2024 Long-Term Capital Maintenance and Equipment Update Project.  Any surplus of 
such proceeds shall be credited to the proper fund as required by law. 
 
SECTION 3.  Any and all prior actions taken by any officer of the Public Library, the City or any member of the Library 
Board or the City -County Council in connection and consistent with this Ordinance, including, but not limited to, 
publication of the notice of the public hearing held on the date hereof, is hereby ratified and approved. 
 
SECTION 4.  This Ordinance shall be in full force and effect upon adoption and compliance with Indiana Code §§ 36-
3-4-14, 36-3-4-15, 36-3-4-16 and 36-3-4-17, each as amended. 
 
SPECIAL ORDERS - FINAL ADOPTION 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 201, 2024.  Councilor Lewis reported that the Metropolitan and Economic 
Development Committee heard Proposal No. 201, 2024 on July 15, 2024.  The proposal, sponsored 
by Councilors Osili, Lewis, Jones and A. Brown , repeals Chapter 121, Article X of the Code, the 
Mile Square Economic Enhancement District, and creates Chapter 121, Article XI, entitled 
Economic Enhancement District.  By an 8-4 vote, the committee reported the proposal  to the full 
Council with the recommendation that it do pass.  Councilor Lewis moved, seconded by Councilor 
McCormick, for adoption.  Proposal No. 201, 2024 was adopted on the following roll call vote; 
viz: 
 
18 YEAS: Allen, Barth, Boots, Brown -A, Brown-J, Carlino, Delaney, Evans, Gibson, Graves, 
Jones, Lewis, Mascari, McCormick, Nielsen, Osili, Perkins, Roberts 
6 NAYS: Annee, Bain, Cahill, Dilk, Hart, Mowery 
1 NOT VOTING:  Robinson 
 
Proposal No. 201, 2024 was retitled GENERAL ORDINANCE NO. 24, 2024, and reads as follows: 
 
CITY-COUNTY GENERAL ORDINANCE NO. 24, 2024 
 
A PROPOSAL FOR A GENERAL ORDINANCE to repeal Chapter 121, Article X, the Mile Square Economic Enhancement 
District of the Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County, and create Revised Code Chapter 121, Article XI, entitled 
the Economic Enhancement District. 
 
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE 
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA: 
 
SECTION 1.  Chapter 121 of the Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County, regarding taxation, is hereby amended 
to delete Article X, “Mile Square Economic Enhancement District” reading as follows:.

=== 2024-08-12 minutes, page 19 of 55 ===
August 12, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
23  
ARTICLE X – MILE SQUARE ECONOMIC ENHANCEMENT DISTRICT 
 
Sec. 121-1001. - Definitions 
 
(a) " Board" shall refer to an economic enhancement district board established in this Article 
  
(b) " Economic enhancement project" as used in this Article, means the following: 
 
(1) Providing security for public areas, including installing and maintaining exterior cameras directly linked with the 
Indianapolis metropolitan police department central control. 
 
(2) Employing safety ambassadors to: 
 
(A) deter aggressive panhandling and other nuisance behavior; 
(B) assist with directions and information; 
(C) facilitate open communications with police to report ongoing issues; 
(D) provide safety escort services; and 
(E) maintain a network of communication throughout the downtown area by engaging with private and public 
security companies. 
 
(3) Cleaning and maintaining sidewalks, including picking up litter, removing graffiti, and power washing. 
 
(4) Conducting extensive outreach to unsheltered homeless individuals. 
 
(5) Funding facility operations for a low barrier shelter for homeless individuals. 
 
(6) Designing, landscaping, beautifying, or maintaining public areas. 
 
(7) Activating and promoting public events. 
 
(8) Creating innovative approaches to attracting new businesses. 
 
(9) Supporting business development. 
 
(10) Planning improvement activities. 
 
(c) “ District” shall refer to the Economic Enhancement District established in this Article. 
 
Sec. 121-1002. – Establishment of the Mile Square Economic Enhancement District 
 
(a) The City-County Council finds that the area bounded by North Street on the North, East Street on the east, South Street 
on the south and West Street on the west is hereby established as the Mile Square Economic Enhancement District. 
 
(b) The City-County Council further finds that the proposed economic enhancement projects will provide special benefits to 
all property owners in the economic enhancement district; 
 
(c) The initial special benefits assessment shall be calculated in a manner that will generate an initial budget not to exceed 
$5,500,000.00.  For each taxable property in the district the special benefits assessment shall be calculated as follows:  
 
(1) Residential properties shall be assessed a flat fee of $250.00 each. 
 
(2) All other taxable, nonresidential property shall be assessed at a rate based on the formula below: 
 
(A) The total budget amount minus the total amount raised from residential properties shall be divided by the total 
assessed value of all the nonresidential taxable property in the district.  This fraction shall be considered the 
EED Assessment Rate.

=== 2024-08-12 minutes, page 20 of 55 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 
 
 
 
 
24 
(B) The EED Assessment Rate can be multiplied by the assessed value of any nonresidential taxable property to 
determine that property’s individual assessment. 
 
(d) This designation and associated benefits for this district shall expire ten (10) years from the date of adoption of this 
ordinance.  However, the district may be extended for a period of ten (10) addi tional years if the Council adopts an 
ordinance and the general assembly enacts legislation to extend the life of the economic enhancement district. 
 
Sec. 121-1003. - Appointment of board members; staff support 
 
(a) The economic enhancement board shall consist of eight (8) members to be appointed as follows: 
 
(1) Two (2) members appointed by the city-county council. 
 
(2) Two (2) members appointed by the mayor. 
 
(3) Two (2) members appointed by the governor. One (1) of the members appointed under this subdivision must 
represent the business community and own real property located within the economic enhancement district. 
 
(4) One (1) member of the state senate appointed by the president pro tempore. 
 
(5) One (1) member of the house of representatives appointed by the speaker.   
 
A majority of the board members must own real property within the economic enhancement district. Each board member shall 
serve a term of one (1) year from the first day of January after the board member's appointment and until the board member's 
successor is appointed and qualified. 
 
(b) A proposal before the board must receive at least five (5) votes to authorize action by the board.   
 
(c) Downtown Indy, Inc., or its successor organization, shall provide staff support to the economic enhancement board. 
 
(d) The members may not receive compensation for service on the board. 
 
Sec. 121-1004 - Imposition of special benefits assessment; apportionment of benefits; public hearing 
 
(a)  The board, after approval of the city-county council and subject to Section 121-1011, may impose an annual special 
benefits assessment on all of the taxable real property of the economic enhancement district based on the relative benefits 
to be received by each type of property. The benefits accruing to parcels of real property within an economic enhancement 
district may be apportioned among those parcels on any basis reasonably representative of the diffusion of benefits from 
the economic enhancement projects, including but not limited to the following: 
 
(1) Proximity of the parcel to the projects. 
 
(2) Accessibility of the parcel to the projects. 
 
(3) True cash value of the parcels. 
 
(4) True cash value of any improvement on the parcel. 
 
(5) Age of any improvement on the parcel. 
 
(6) Other similar factors. 
 
The apportionment of benefits under this subsection may be adjusted by zone or land use as provided in subsections (c) and 
(d). 
 
(b)  Upon determining the proposed assessment for each parcel, the board shall promptly mail notice to each owner of 
property to be assessed. This notice must: 
 
(1) set forth the amount of the proposed special assessment;

=== 2024-08-12 minutes, page 21 of 55 ===
August 12, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
25  
(2) state that the proposed special assessment on each parcel of real property in the economic enhancement district is 
on file and may be seen in the board's office;  
 
(3) set forth the time and place where the board will hold a public hearing to hear any owner of assessed real property 
regarding their proposed assessment; and 
 
(4) state that the board, after hearing evidence, may decrease, or leave unchanged, the special assessment on any parcel. 
 
The notices must be deposited in the mail not later than twenty (20) days before the hearing date. The notices to the owners 
must be addressed as the names and addresses appear on the tax duplicates and the records of the county auditor. 
 
(c) If the benefit of the economic enhancement project varies from one (1) area to another within the economic enhancement 
district, up to three (3) zones may be established within the economic enhancement district to delineate the approximate 
difference in beneficial impact, and benefits may be apportioned accordingly. 
 
(d) In order to encourage the retention or development of various land uses within the economic enhancement district, 
assessments may be adjusted according to the zoning classification of the property. 
 
(e) Each special assessment is a lien on the real property that is assessed, second only to ad valorem property taxes levied on 
that property. 
 
(f) After the public hearing is conducted under subsection (b), the board shall certify to the county auditor the schedule of 
special assessments of benefits. For purposes of providing substantiation of the deductibility of a special assessment for 
federal adjusted gross income tax purposes under Section 164 of the Internal Revenue Code, the board shall, to the extent 
practicable, supplement the schedule of special assessments provided to the county auditor with a statement that identifies 
the part of each special assessment that is allocable to interest, maintenance, and repair charges. If the board provides the 
county auditor with the statement, the county auditor shall show, on the tax statement, the part of the special assessment 
that is for interest and maintenance and repair items separately from the remainder of the special assessment. 
 
(g) Not later than thirty (30) days after the county auditor receives the certification of final scheduled assessments for the 
completion of the economic enhancement projects, the county auditor shall deliver a copy of the certificate to the county 
treasurer. Each year, the county treasurer shall add the full annual assessment due in that year to the tax statements of the 
person owning the property affected by the assessment, designating it in a manner distinct from general taxes. 
 
(h) The proceeds of the special benefits assessments shall be deposited into a special fund known as the economic 
enhancement district project fund, and shall be used by the board solely to finance economic enhancement projects in or 
directly serving or benefiting the economic enhancement district. Any money earned from investment of money in the 
fund becomes a part of the fund. 
 
Sec. 121-1005 - Annual budget; expenditures 
 
(a)  Not later than November 1 of each year, the board shall prepare and submit to the council a budget for the following 
calendar year governing the board's projected expenditures from the economic enhancement district project fund. The 
council may approve, modify, or reject the proposed budget. 
 
(b) The board’s budget submittal shall include the total number of residential properties, the flat fee to  be assessed for 
residential properties, a break down and a total of the assessed value of all of the nonresidential taxable properties and 
the total amount to be raised for a given year. 
 
(c) Any increase in the annual special benefits assessment budget shall be calculated in a manner not to exceed an inflationary 
adjustment based on the six-year moving average of Indiana non-farm personal income as published by the U.S. Bureau 
of Economic Analysis.  
 
(d) The board may make an expenditure from the economic enhancement district project fund only if the expenditure is 
approved by the city fiscal body in its review of the board's budget or is otherwise approved by the council.

=== 2024-08-12 minutes, page 22 of 55 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 
 
 
 
 
26 
Sec. 121-1006 - Compliance with requirements for contracting for public works, open door, public records 
 
The board shall comply with IC 36-1-12 when contracting for public works.  All meetings of the board shall comply with 
Indiana’s Open Door Law, IC 5-14-1.5-1 et seq.  All records of the board shall be kept as directed under Indiana’s Access to 
Public Records Act, IC 5-14-3-1 et seq. 
 
Sec. 121-1007. -  Leases or contracted agreements 
 
The board may enter into lease or contractual agreements, or both, with governmental, not-for-profit, or other private entities 
for the purpose of carrying out recovery projects. 
 
Sec. 121-1008. - Disposal of assets and liabilities upon repeal of ordinance 
 
If this ordinance is repealed or the district is otherwise terminated, the assets and liabilities of the economic enhancement 
district shall be disposed of in the manner determined by the city. However, liabilities incurred by the economic enhancement 
district are not an obligation of the city and are payable only from the special benefits assessments and other revenues of the 
economic enhancement district. 
 
Sec. 121-1009. - Annual report to city fiscal body 
 
The board shall submit an annual report to the city fiscal body not later than June 30 of each year. The report must summarize 
the board's activities and expenditures during the preceding calendar year. 
 
Sec. 121-1010. - Power of the board to finance projects 
 
Subject to section 121-1011, after approval of the city fiscal body, the board may issue revenue bonds payable from special 
benefits assessment revenues or other revenues of the economic enhancement district to finance an economic enhancement 
project. 
 
Sec. 121-1011. - Failure to comply with statutory requirements 
 
If the board fails to comply with a requirement under IC 36 -7-40, the board may not issue revenue bonds and a special 
assessment may not be assessed within the economic enhancement district. 
 
SECTION 2. Chapter 121 of the Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County," regarding taxation, is hereby amended 
to add Article XI, “Economic Enhancement District” and shall read as follows: 
 
“Article XI – ECONOMIC ENHANCEMENT DISTRICT 
 
Sec. 121-1101.  Definitions 
 
(a) " Board" shall refer to an Economic Enhancement District board established in this Article 
  
(b) " Economic enhancement project" as used in this Article, means the following: 
 
(1) Providing security for public areas, including installing and maintaining exterior cameras directly linked with the 
Indianapolis metropolitan police department central control. 
 
(2) Employing safety ambassadors to: 
 
(A) deter panhandling and other nuisance behavior; 
 
(B) assist with directions and information; 
 
(C) facilitate open communications with police to report ongoing issues; 
 
(D) provide safety escort services; and 
 
(E) maintain a network of communication throughout the downtown area by engaging with private and public 
security companies.

=== 2024-08-12 minutes, page 23 of 55 ===
August 12, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
27  
 
(3) Cleaning and maintaining sidewalks, including picking up litter, removing graffiti, and power washing. 
 
(4) Conducting extensive outreach to unsheltered homeless individuals. 
 
(5) Funding facility operations for a low barrier shelter for homeless individuals. 
 
(6) Designing, landscaping, beautifying, or maintaining public areas. 
 
(7) Supporting business development. 
 
(c) “District” shall refer to the Economic Enhancement District established in this Article. 
 
Sec. 121-1102.  Establishment of the Economic Enhancement District 
 
(a) The City-County Council finds that the area described below is hereby established as the Economic Enhancement District 
(“EED”). 
 
The boundaries of the proposed district are as follows: The North border and the East border are primarily I65.  The 
South border is primarily South Street, and the West border is primarily Blackford Street.  
• The Southwest corner is the projection of Blackford Street going south that would intersect with the projection 
of South Street projected west.   
• The Northwest corner is the projection of Blackford Street north where it intersects with the projection of I65 
going west.  
• The Southeast corner is the projection of South Street east until that projection intersects with I65. 
 
(b) The City-County Council finds that the proposed economic enhancement projects will provide special benefits to all 
property owners of the Economic Enhancement District. 
 
(c) The City-County Council further finds that the following types of properties within the District are excluded from the 
assessment of benefits: 
 
(1) Any property that receives a homestead standard deduction under IC 6-1.1-12-37. 
 
(2) Any property that is used for single unit or multi-unit residential property. 
 
(d) Owners of properties described in subsection 121-1102(c)(1) and (c)(2) or the owner of any property outside of the 
boundaries described in section 121-1002(a), may voluntarily opt-in to include their property in the EED assessment of 
benefits by notifying the county auditor in writing.  A determination to opt-in is binding until the property is sold at which 
time the new owner shall have the opportunity to determine whether to opt-in. 
 
(e) The formula to be used for the assessment of benefits shall be as follows: 
 
(1) The annual special benefits assessment shall be calculated in a manner that will generate an amount not to exceed 
five million five hundred thousand dollars ($5,500,000.00). 
 
(2)  For each taxable property in the District, the special benefits assessment shall be calculated as follows: 
 
(A) Residential properties shall be assessed a flat fee of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) each.   
 
(B) All other nonresidential taxable property shall be assessed at a rate equal to the total budget amount minus the 
total amount raised from residential properties divided by the total assessed value of all the nonresidential 
taxable property in the District. This fraction shall be considered the EED  Assessment Rate. The EED 
Assessment Rate can be multiplied by the assessed value of any nonresidential taxable property to determine 
that property's assessment. 
 
(C) No individual parcel’s EED assessment rate shall exceed 0-1681% of the parcel’s gross assessed value.

=== 2024-08-12 minutes, page 24 of 55 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 
 
 
 
 
28 
(f) The expiration date of the EED shall be ten (10) years from the date of the adoption of this ordinance and may not be 
renewed. 
 
Sec. 121-1103.  Appointment of board members; staff support 
 
(a) The economic enhancement board shall consist of nine (9) members to be appointed as follows: 
 
(1) Two (2) members appointed by the city-county council. 
 
(2) One (1) member appointed by the mayor. 
 
(3) Four (4) members appointed by the governor. One (1) of the members appointed under this subdivision must  
represent the business community and own real property located within the Economic Enhancement District. 
 
(4) One (1) member of the state senate appointed by the president pro tempore. 
 
(5) One (1) member of the house of representatives appointed by the speaker.   
 
A majority of the board members must own real property within the Economic Enhancement District . Each board 
member shall serve a term of one (1) year from the first day of January after the board member's appointment and until 
the board member's successor is appointed and qualified. 
 
(b) A proposal before the board must receive at least six (6) votes to authorize action by the board.   
 
(c) Downtown Indy, Inc., or its successor organization shall provide staff support to the economic enhancement board. 
 
(d) The members may not receive compensation for service on the board. 
 
Sec. 121-1104.  Imposition of special benefits assessment; apportionment of benefits; public hearing 
 
(a)  The board, after approval of the City-County Council and subject to Section 121-1011, may impose an annual special 
benefits assessment on all of the non-excluded taxable real property of the Economic Enhancement District based on the 
relative benefits to be received by each type of property. The benefits accruing to parcels of real property within an 
Economic Enhancement District may be apportioned among those parcels on any basis reasonably representative of the 
diffusion of benefits from the economic enhancement projects, including but not limited to the following: 
 
(1) Proximity of the parcel to the projects. 
 
(2) Accessibility of the parcel to the projects. 
 
(3) True cash value of the parcels. 
 
(4) True cash value of any improvement on the parcel. 
 
(5) Age of any improvement on the parcel. 
 
(6) Other similar factors. 
 
The apportionment of benefits under this subsection may be adjusted by zone or land use as provided in subsections (c) and 
(d). 
 
(b)  Upon determining the proposed assessment for each parcel, the board shall promptly mail n otice to each owner of 
property to be assessed. This notice must: 
 
(1) set forth the amount of the proposed special assessment; 
 
(2) state that the proposed special assessment on each parcel of real property in the Economic Enhancement District is 
on file and may be seen in the board's office;

=== 2024-08-12 minutes, page 25 of 55 ===
August 12, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
29  
(3) set forth the time and place where the board will hold a public hearing to hear any owner of assessed real property 
regarding their proposed assessment; and 
 
(4) state that the board, after hearing evidence, may decrease, or leave unchanged, the special assessment on any parcel. 
 
The notices must be deposited in the mail not later than twenty (20) days before the hearing date. The notices to the 
owners must be addressed as the names and addresses appear on the tax duplicates and the records of the county auditor. 
 
(c) If the benefit of the economic enhancement project varies from one (1) area to another within the Economic Enhancement 
District, up to three (3) zones may be established within the Economic Enhancement District to delineate the approximate 
difference in beneficial impact, and benefits may be apportioned accordingly. 
 
(d) In order to encourage the retention or development of various land uses within the Economic Enhancement District, 
assessments may be adjusted according to the zoning classification of the property. 
 
(e) Each special assessment is a lien on the real property that is assessed, second only to ad valorem property taxes levied on 
that property. 
 
(f) After the public hearing is conducted under subsection (b), the board shall certify to the county auditor the schedule of 
special assessments of benefits. For purposes of providing substantiation of the deductibility of a special assessment for 
federal adjusted gross income tax purposes under Section 164 of the Internal Revenue Code, the board shall, to the extent 
practicable, supplement the schedule of special assessments provided to the county auditor with a statement that identifies 
the part of each special assessment that is allocable to interest, maintenance, and repair charges. If the board provides the 
county auditor with the statement, the county auditor shall show, on the tax statement, the part of the special assessment 
that is for interest and maintenance and repair items separately from the remainder of the special assessment. 
 
(g) Not later than thirty (30) days after the county auditor receives the certification of final scheduled assessments for the 
completion of the economic enhancement projects, the county auditor shall deliver a copy of the certificate to the county 
treasurer. Each year, the county treasurer shall add the full annual assessment due in that year to the tax statements of the 
person owning the property affected by the assessment, designating it in a manner distinct from general taxes. 
 
(h) The proceeds of the special benefits assessments shall be deposited into a special fund known as the Economic 
Enhancement District project fund, and shall be used by the board solely to finance economic enhancement projects in 
or directly serving or benefiting the Economic Enhancement District. Any money earned from investment of money in 
the fund becomes a part of the fund. 
 
Sec. 121-1105.  Annual budget; expenditures 
 
(a)  Not later than November 1 of each year, the board shall prepare and submit to the council a budget for the following 
calendar year governing the board's projected expenditures from the Economic Enhancement District project fund. The 
council may approve, modify, or reject the proposed budget. 
 
(b) The board's budget submittal shall include the total number of residential properties, the total number and break down of 
the nonresidential properties, the flat fee to be assessed for residential properties, the total assessed value of all of the 
taxable properties, and the total amount to be raised for a given year.  
 
(c) Any increase in the annual special benefits assessment budget shall be calculated in a manner not to exceed an inflationary 
adjustment based on the six-year moving average of Indiana non-farm personal income as published by the U.S. Bureau 
of Economic Analysis.  
 
(d) The board may make an expenditure from the Economic Enhancement District project fund only if the expenditure is 
approved by the city fiscal body in its review of the board's budget or is otherwise approved by the council. 
 
Sec. 121-1106.  Compliance with requirements for contracting for public works, open door, public records 
 
The board shall comply with IC 36-1-12 when contracting for public works.  All meetings of the board shall comply with 
Indiana’s Open Door Law, IC 5-14-1.5-1 et seq.  All records of the board shall be kept as directed under Indiana’s Access to 
Public Records Act, IC 5-14-3-1 et seq. and Indiana’s Record Retention laws, IC 5-15 et seq.

=== 2024-08-12 minutes, page 26 of 55 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 
 
 
 
 
30 
 
Sec. 121-1107.  Leases or contracted agreements 
 
The board may enter into lease or contractual agreements, or both, with governmental, not-for-profit, or other private entities 
for the purpose of carrying out economic enhancement projects.  The term of any lease or contractual agreement may not 
exceed the expiration of this article. 
 
Sec. 121-1108.  Disposal of assets and liabilities upon repeal of ordinance 
 
If this ordinance is repealed or the District is otherwise terminated, the assets and liabilities of the Economic Enhancement 
District shall be disposed of in the manner determined by the city. However, liabilities incurred by the Economic Enhancement 
District are not an obligation of the city and are payable only from the special benefits assessments and other revenues of the 
Economic Enhancement District. 
 
Sec. 121-1109.  Annual report to city fiscal body 
 
The board shall submit an annual report to the City-County Council not later than June 30
th of each year. The report must 
summarize the board's activities and expenditures during the preceding calendar year. 
 
Sec. 121-1110.  Power of the board to finance projects 
 
Subject to section 121-1111, after approval of the City-County Council, the board may issue revenue bonds, whose term may 
not exceed the expiration date of this article, payable from special benefits assessment revenues or other revenues of the 
Economic Enhancement District to finance an economic enhancement project. 
 
Sec. 121-1111.  Failure to comply with statutory requirements 
 
If the board fails to comply with a requirement under IC 36 -7-40, the board may not issue revenue bonds and a special 
assessment may not be assessed within the Economic Enhancement District.” 
 
SECTION 3.  Should any provision (section, paragraph, sentence, clause, or any other portion) of this ordinance be declared 
by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, the remaining provision or provisions shall not be affected, 
if and only if such remaining provisions can, without the invalid provision or provisions, be given the effect intended by the 
Council in adopting this ordinance.  To this end the provisions of this ordinance are severable.” 
 
SECTION 4.  This ordinance shall be in effect from and after its passage by the Council and compliance with Ind. Code § 36-
3-4-14. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 202, 2024.  Councilor Lewis reported that the Metropolitan and Economic 
Development Committee heard Proposal No. 202, 2024 on July 15, 2024.  The proposal, sponsored 
by Councilor Gibson, amends a declaratory resolution and redevelopment plan of the Metropolitan 
Development Commission for the purpose of: 1) expanding the Greater Martindale Brightwood 
Housing Redevelopment Area to include an Enlarged Area; 2) designating the expanded area as 
the Expanded Greater Martindale Brightwood Housing Redevelopment Area; 3) establ ishing the 
Reagan Park Housing TIF Allocation Area as an allocation area for the purposes of capturing 
incremental assessed value as provided under Indiana Code 36 -7-15.1; and 4) amending the 
Original Redevelopment Plan with the Amended Plan, as defined in the declaratory resolution.  By 
an 11-0 vote, the committee reported the proposal to the full Council with the recommendation that 
it do pass.  Councilor Lewis moved, seconded by Councilor Carlino, for adoption.  Proposal No. 
202, 2024 was adopted on the following roll call vote; viz: 
 
25 YEAS: Allen, Annee, Bain, Barth, Boots, Brown-A, Brown-J, Cahill, Carlino, Delaney, Dilk, 
Evans, Gibson, Graves, Hart, Jones, Lewis, Mascari, McCormick, Mowery, Nielsen, Osili, 
Perkins, Roberts, Robinson 
0 NAYS:

=== 2024-08-12 minutes, page 27 of 55 ===
August 12, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
31  
Proposal No. 202, 2024 was retitled GENERAL RESOLUTION NO. 28, 2024, and reads as 
follows: 
 
CITY-COUNTY GENERAL RESOLUTION NO. 28, 2024 
 
A GENERAL RESOLUTION of the City -County Council of the City of Indianapolis and of Marion County, Indiana 
(the “City-County Council”), approving (i) an amending Declaratory Resolution and Redevelopment Plan, as amended, 
of the Metropolitan Development Commission of Marion County, Indiana, acting as the Redevelopment Commission 
of the City of Indianapolis, Indiana (the “Commission” ) under Indiana Code 36-7-15.1, et seq. (the “Act”) and (ii) the 
determination of the Commission that an area within the City of Indianapolis, Indiana is an allocation area within a 
redevelopment area. 
 
 WHEREAS, on November 3, 2021, the Commission adopted its Resolution 2021-E-019 (the “Original  
Declaratory Resolution”) which established a housing redevelopment area known as the “Greater Martindale Brightwood 
Housing Redevelopment Area” (the “Original Area”) and approved a plan for the Original Redevelopm ent Area (the 
“Original Plan”); and 
 
WHEREAS, following approval by the City-County Council, and after holding a public hearing, all in accordance 
with the Act, the Commission adopted its Resolution No. 2021 -E-026 on December 15, 2021, confirming the Origi nal 
Declaratory Resolution; and 
 
WHEREAS, on June 26, 2024, the Commission, pursuant to the Act, adopted its Resolution No. 2024 -E-023 (the 
“Declaratory Resolution”) which (a) expanded the Original Area to include the Enlarged Area (as defined in the 
Declaratory Resolution) and designated it the Expanded Greater Martindale Brightwood Housing Redevelopment Area; 
(b) established the Reagan Park Housing TIF Allocation Area as an allocation area for the purposes of capturing 
incremental assessed value as provided in the Act; and (c) amended the Original Plan with the Amended Plan (as defined 
in the Declaratory Resolution); and 
 
WHEREAS, the Act requires approval of the Declaratory Resolution, the Amended Plan, the Enlarged Area and 
the Allocation Area by the City-County Council; and 
 
WHEREAS, the Declaratory Resolution and Amended Plan have been submitted to this City-County Council; now, 
therefore: 
 
BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE  
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA: 
 
SECTION 1. The Declaratory Resolution, Amended Plan and Enlarged Area, are in all respects approved, ratified and 
confirmed by the City-County Council. 
 
SECTION 2. The determination of the Commission that the Allocation Area described in the Declaratory Resolution is 
an allocation area pursuant to the Act is in all respects approved, ratified and confirmed by the Council. 
 
SECTION 3. This resolution shall be in full force and effect upon adoption and compliance with Indiana Code §§ 36-3 -
4-14, 36-3-4-15 and 36-3-4-16. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 203, 2024.  Councilor Mascari reported that the Administration and Finance 
Committee heard Proposal No. 203, 2024 on July 16, 2024.  The proposal, sponsored by Councilor 
Osili, amends Chapter 202, Article IV, Office of Minority and Women Business Development, to 
create an office title change and tracking of local small business enterprise (SBE) firms for better 
market analysis and statistic for future program development .  Councilor Mascari stated that 
Proposal 203, 2024, was a request by the Office of Minority and Women Business Development 
amend the revised code Chapter 202 Article IV to change the name of the office and allow for the 
tracking of small business enterprises.  Because they feel additional changes may be needed after 
they review their disparity study, the director of the office requested that the proposal be withdrawn

=== 2024-08-12 minutes, page 28 of 55 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 
 
 
 
 
32 
and resubmitted at a later date.  The committee, by consent, voted to allow the proposal to be 
withdrawn.  Withdrawal of Proposal No. 203, 2024 was accepted by unanimous consent.
 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 204, 2024.  Councilor Lewis reported that the Metropolitan and Economic 
Development Committee heard Proposal No. 204, 2024 on July 15, 2024.  The proposal, sponsored 
by Councilor Jones, approves the statement of benefits of TWG Development, LLC, an applicant 
for tax abatement for property located in an economic revitalization area .  By a 12-0 vote, the 
committee reported the proposal to the full Council with the recommendation that it do pass.  
Councilor Lewis moved, seconded by Councilor A. Brown, for adoption.  Proposal No. 204, 2024 
was adopted on the following roll call vote; viz: 
 
25 YEAS: Allen, Annee, Bain, Barth, Boots, Brown-A, Brown-J, Cahill, Carlino, Delaney, Dilk, 
Evans, Gibson, Graves, Hart, Jones, Lewis, Mascari, McCormick, Mowery, Nielsen, Osili, 
Perkins, Roberts, Robinson 
0 NAYS: 
 
Proposal No. 204, 2024 was retitled GENERAL RESOLUTI ON NO. 29, 2024, and reads as 
follows:   
 
CITY-COUNTY GENERAL RESOLUTION NO. 29, 2024 
 
PROPOSAL FOR A GENERAL RESOLUTION to approve the statement of benefits of TWG Development, LLC 
(hereinafter referred to as “Applicant”), an applicant for tax abatement for property located in an allocation area as defined 
by IC 36-7-15.1-26. 
 
WHEREAS, IC 6-1.1-12.1 allows a partial abatement of property taxes attributable to redevelopment, rehabilitation 
activities or installation of new equipment in Economic Revitalization Areas (each hereinafter referred to as a “Project”); 
and 
 
WHEREAS, pursuant to IC 6 -1.1-12.1, the Metropolitan Development Commission of Marion County, Indiana, 
acting as the Redevelopment Commission of the City of Indianapolis, Indiana (hereinafter ref erred to as "MDC") is 
empowered to designate Economic Revitalization Areas; and  
 
WHEREAS, IC 6 -1.1-12.1 requires an applicant for Economic Revitalization Area designation to provide a 
statement of benefits and requires the MDC, before it makes a decision to designate the area as an Economic 
Revitalization Area, to determine that (i) the estimated value of a Project is reasonable for projects of that nature, (ii) the 
estimated employment at the indicated annual salaries for a Project identified in the statement of benefits can reasonably 
be expected, (iii) a Project can be reasonably expected to yield the benefits identified in the statement of benefits and (iv) 
the totality of benefits arising from a Project is sufficient to justify Economic Revitalization Area designation; and  
 
WHEREAS, pursuant to IC 6-1.1-12.1-2(k), a statement of benefits for property located within an allocation area, as 
defined by IC 36 -7-15.1-26, may not be approved unless the City -County Council of Indianapolis and Marion County, 
Indiana (hereinafter referred to as "Council") adopts a resolution approving the statement of benefits; and  
 
WHEREAS, the Applicant has submitted a real property Statement of Benefits to the MDC as part of its application 
for Economic Revitalizati on Area designation for property where Applicant’s Project will occur, located within an 
allocation area, as defined by IC 36-7-15.1-26; and 
 
WHEREAS, MDC has preliminarily approved Applicant’s Statements of Benefits, pending adoption from the 
Council, to allow the designation of the Economic Revitalization Area and related tax abatement pursuant to IC 6 -1.1-
12.1; now, therefore: 
 
BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE 
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA: 
 
SECTION 1.  The Council hereby approves the Statements of Benefits that were submitted to the MDC, as part of the 
application for Economic Revitalization Area designation, by TWG Development, LLC.

=== 2024-08-12 minutes, page 29 of 55 ===
August 12, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
33  
SECTION 2.  This resolution shall be in effect from and after its passage by the Council and compliance with Ind. Code 36-
3-4-14. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 205, 2024.  Councilor Lewis reported that the Metropolitan and Economic 
Development Committee heard Proposal No. 204, 2024 on July 15, 2024.  The proposal, sponsored 
by Councilor Jones, amends the Code to add Chapter 852, Indianapolis Short-Term Rental Permit 
Program.  By  an 11- 0 vote, the committee reported the proposal to the full Council with the 
recommendation that it do pass as amended.   
 
Councilor Hart stated that for the record, he voted against this proposal in committee.  He said that 
he has listened to a lot of testimony and met with a group of people who own these types of 
businesses, who are local residents.  He said that he is not necessarily against the proposal, but 
wanted more protections for those local residents who own short -term rentals.  He said that this 
group asked him to offer an amendment, and his suggestion was to expand the long- term rental 
registry to include short -term rentals, so that they can better identify bad behavior.  He said that 
this proposed amendment is a first start toward a compromise.  Councilor Hart made the following 
motion:   
 
Mr. President:    
 
I move to amend Proposal No. 205, 2024 by deleting the double stricken-through language and adding the language that 
is double underlined in the highlighted portions below, to read as follows (note that the portions of this ordinance 
approved in committee by the First Amendment are highlighted below in green.  The portions highlighted in yellow with 
the red type and double strike through are portions added by the first amendment but deleted by this amendment.):  
 
Sec. 852-106.- Short-Term Rental Permit Program 
 
(1) Development Plan. Short-term rentals are not required to obtain development plan approval. 
 
(2) Annual Permit.  
   
(a) Each short-term rental unit shall be permitted individually on an annual basis with the Department of 
Business & Neighborhood Services. A permit expires one (1) year after the date the permit is issued and 
must be renewed annually. 
 
(b) Applications for a permit must include the following: 
 
(i) The owner’s name, street address, mailing address, electronic mail address (if applicable), and 
telephone number. If the owner is a corporation or partnership, the application must require the 
owner’s state of incorporation or organization an d names, residence addresses, and telephone 
numbers of the owner’s principal officers or partners. 
 
(ii) If a property manager is used, the property manager’s name, street address, mailing address, 
electronic mail address (if applicable), and telephone number. 
 
(iii) A short description of how each of the owner’s short -term rentals on the property are marketed or 
advertised, including the following: 
 
(A) The advertised occupancy limits of each short-term rental. 
 
(B) Whether the short-term rental is a single-family home; a dwelling unit in a single family home; 
a dwelling unit in a two-family or multifamily dwelling; or a dwelling unit in a condominium. 
 
(iv) A permit application must be made by an owner. If the owner is a corporation, partnership, or other 
legal entity, the permit application must be made by an officer or agent of the owner.

=== 2024-08-12 minutes, page 30 of 55 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 
 
 
 
 
34 
 
(c) The Department of Business & Neighborhood Services shall not collect a permit fee in the amount of one 
hundred fifty dollars ($150) for each of the following: 
(i) An initial permit issued to an owner for the permitted property. 
 
(ii) The issuance of a subsequent permit to an owner for the permitted property after the owner’s previous 
permit has been revoked. 
 
(d) As part of the annual registration, an inspection may be required to ensure the structure/unit meets all the 
applicable building codes and is safe and habitable. 
 
Sec. 852-107.- Short-Term Rental Permit Fund 
 
There is hereby created a special fund, to be designated as the "Short -Term Permit Fund.” This fund shall be a 
continuing, non-reverting fund, with all balances remaining therein at the end of the year, and such balances shall not 
revert to the city or county general funds. The controller shall deposit in this fund all fees assessed and collected pertaining 
exclusively to a short-term rental. This fund shall be dedicated solely to reimbursing the costs actually incurred relating 
to the Indianapolis Short-Term Rental Permit Program. 
 
Sec. 852-107 Short-Term Rental Permit Fees 
 
Permit fees described in Section 852 -106 and allowed by IC 36 -1-24-13 shall be remitted to the office of finance 
and management for deposit in to the consolidated county general fund as miscellaneous revenues. 
 
Sec. 852-107 108 107   Penalties and Enforcement 
Short-term rental owners who do not comply with the regulations may be subject to enforcement actions including 
inspection, citations, and/or revocation of registration pursuant to the provisions of IC 36-1-24.” 
 
SECTION 2. Revised Code Chapter 131 Section 501 shall be amended to add the following: 
 
Code  
Section  
License or Permit  Maximum Allowed Fee  
852-106 Short-term rental permit $150.00 one -time fee to: (i) An initial permit 
issued to an owner for the permitted property (ii) 
The issuance of a subsequent permit to an owner 
for the permitted property after the owner’s 
previous permit has been revoked 
 
Councilor Bain seconded the motion to amend.   
 
Councilor Jones asked her colleagues to oppose the amendment.  She said that she has worked hard 
on this issue for many years, and the i mpetus for this proposal came from a constituent advocacy 
group, many of whom are here this evening.  She thanked the Department of Business and 
Neighborhood Services and Director Abby Brands for their help.  She said that this fee is needed 
to get this up and running and is crucial to this program.  She said that the program is very important, 
and she urged her colleagues to defeat the amendment.  The motion to amend failed on the 
following roll call vote; viz: 
 
19 YEAS: Allen, Barth, Boots, Brown -A, Brown-J, Carlino, Delaney, Evans, Gibson, Graves, 
Jones, Lewis, Mascari, McCormick, Nielsen, Osili, Perkins, Roberts, Robinson 
6 NAYS:  Annee, Bain, Cahill, Dilk, Hart, Mowery 
 
Councilor Barth asked to be added as co-sponsor.   
 
Councilor Lewis moved, seconded by Councilor A. Brown, for adoption.  Proposal No. 205, 2024 
was adopted on the following roll call vote; viz:

=== 2024-08-12 minutes, page 31 of 55 ===
August 12, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
35  
25 YEAS: Allen, Annee, Barth, Boots, Brown-A, Brown -J, Cahill, Carlino, Delaney, Dilk, 
Evans, Gibson, Graves, Jones, Lewis, Mascari, McCormick, Mowery, Nielsen, Osili, Perkins, 
Roberts, Robinson 
2 NAYS: Bain, Hart 
 
Proposal No. 205, 2024 was retitled GENERAL ORDINANCE NO. 25, 2024, and reads as follows:   
 
CITY-COUNTY GENERAL ORDINANCE NO. 25, 2024 
 
PROPOSAL FOR A GENERAL ORDINANCE to amend the Revised Code to add Chapter 852 Indianapolis Short-Term 
Rental Permit Program. 
 
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE 
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND MARION COUNTY INDIANA 
 
SECTION 1.  A new section of the “Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County,” regarding Short- Term Rentals, 
is added the underlined provisions to read as follows: 
 
Chapter 852- INDIANAPOLIS SHORT-TERM RENTAL PERMIT PROGRAM 
 
Sec. 852-101.- Program established. 
 
The Indianapolis Short-Term Rental Permitting is hereby established. 
 
Sec. 852-102.- Authority. 
 
I.C. 36 -1-24 et seq. Allows a political subdivision to establish and enforce permitting programs and inspection 
programs for short-term rentals within a political subdivision, subject to certain conditions and limitations. 
 
Sec. 852-103.- Definitions 
 
For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions apply: 
 
(1) “Owner” has the meaning set forth in IC 36-1-24-2. 
 
(2) “Short term rental” has the meaning set forth in IC 36-1-24-6. 
 
(3) “Permit” has the meaning set forth in IC 36-1-24-4 
 
Sec. 852-104.- Short-Term Rental Intent  
 
The purpose of the short-term rental standards is to ensure compliance with the provisions of IC 36-1-24 as well as: 
 
(1) Set an appropriate balance between the interests of the C ity’s residents, business owners, visitors to the 
community, and property owners wishing to engage in short-term rental of dwellings; 
 
(2) Ensure issues related to fire safety and life safety codes are met; and  
 
(3)  Allow homeowners to benefit from added income. 
 
Sec. 852-105.- Short-Term Rental Standards 
 
(1) Permitted Structure Types - Short-term rental units shall be in legally built dwelling units that meet all 
applicable building code requirements. A short -term rental may be within a primary building as defined in 
Section 740 -202 or within an accessory building that conforms with Section 743- 306 (GG): Secondary 
Dwelling Unit.

=== 2024-08-12 minutes, page 32 of 55 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 
 
 
 
 
36 
(2) Prohibited Structure Types- A recreational vehicle, mobile home dwelling units, travel trailer, automobile, 
shipping container, or similar structure.  A motor vehicle, part of a motor vehicle, or any structure not intended 
for permanent human occupancy. 
 
(3) Parking shall comply with Section 744, articles 4, 5 and 7 as well as Chapter 931 of the Revised Code 
(commercial areas). 
  
(4) Signs shall comply with Section 744, article 9: signs of the Revised Code (commercial areas). 
 
Sec. 852-106.- Short-Term Rental Permit Program 
 
(3) Development Plan. Short-term rentals are not required to obtain development plan approval. 
 
(4) Annual Permit.  
   
(e) Each short-term rental unit shall be permitted individually on an annual basis with the Department of 
Business & Neighborhood Services. A permit expires one (1) year after the date the permit is issued and 
must be renewed annually. 
 
(f) Applications for a permit must include the following: 
(v) The owner’s name, street address, mailing address, electronic mail address (if applicable), 
and telephone n umber. If the owner is a corporation or partnership, the application must 
require the owner’s state of incorporation or organization and names, residence addresses, 
and telephone numbers of the owner’s principal officers or partners. 
(vi) If a property manager is used, the property manager’s name, street address, mailing 
address, electronic mail address (if applicable), and telephone number. 
(vii) A short description of how each of the owner’s short -term rentals on the property are 
marketed or advertised, including the following: 
(A) The advertised occupancy limits of each short-term rental. 
(B) Whether the short -term rental is a single -family home; a dwelling unit in a single 
family home; a dwelling unit in a two -family or multifamily dwelling; or a dwelling 
unit in a condominium. 
(viii) A permit application must be made by an owner. If the owner is a corporation, partnership, 
or other legal entity, the permit application must be made by an officer or agent of the 
owner. 
 
(g) The Department of Business & Neighborhood Services shall collect a permit fee in the amount of one 
hundred fifty dollars ($150) for each of the following: 
 
(i) An initial permit issued to an owner for the permitted property. 
(ii) The issuance of a subsequent permit to an owner for the permitted property after the owner’s  
previous permit has been revoked. 
 
(h) As part of the annual registration, an inspection may be required to ensure the structure/unit meets all the 
applicable building codes and is safe and habitable. 
 
Sec. 852-107 Short-Term Rental Permit Fees 
 
Permit fees described in Section 852 -106 and allowed by IC 36 -1-24-13 shall be remitted to the office of finance 
and management for deposit in to the consolidated county general fund as miscellaneous revenues. 
 
Sec. 852-108  Penalties and Enforcement 
 
Short-term rental owners who do not comply with the regulations may be subject to enforcement actions including 
inspection, citations, and/or revocation of registration pursuant to the provisions of IC 36-1-24.” 
 
SECTION 2. Revised Code Chapter 131 Section 501 shall be amended to add the following: 
 
Code Section  License or Permit  Maximum Allowed Fee

=== 2024-08-12 minutes, page 33 of 55 ===
August 12, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
37  
852-106 Short-term rental permit $150.00 one -time fee to: (i) An initial permit 
issued to an owner for the permitted property (ii) 
The issuance of a subsequent permit to an owner 
for the permitted property after the owner’s 
previous permit has been revoked 
 
SECTION 3.  Should any provision (section, paragraph, sentence, clause, or any other portion) of this ordinance be 
declared by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, the remaining provision or provisions shall not 
be affected, if and only if such remaining provisions can, without the invalid provision or provisions, be given the effect 
intended by the Council in adopting this ordinance.  To this end the provisions of this ordinance are severable. 
 
SECTION 4.  This ordinance shall be in effect from and after January 1, 2025, and compliance with Ind. Code § 36-3-4-
14. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 207, 2024.  Councilor Lewis reported that the Metropolitan and Economic 
Development Committee heard Proposal No. 207, 2024 on July 15, 2024.  The proposal, sponsored 
by Councilors Roberts, Barth, Osili, J. Brown, Lewis, Jones, Gibson, Allen, Nielsen and A. Brown, 
amends Chapter 531 of the Code, regarding Animals, to allow  for the registry of unaltered dogs .  
By a 12-0 vote, the committee reported the proposal to the full Council with the recommendation 
that it do pass as amended.   
 
Councilor Bain made the following motion: 
 
Mr. President:   
I move to further amend Proposal No. 207, 2024 by adding the language that is double underlined  in the highlighted 
portions below, to read as follows (note that the portions of Section 531- 413 approved in committee by the First 
Amendment are highlighted below in green):  
 
SECTION 3. A new Section 413 of Chapter 531 of the "Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County," is hereby 
created by adding the language underlined to read as follows: 
 
Sec. 531-413 Marion County Unaltered Animal Registry 
 
(a) This Section does not apply to:  
 
(1) “Commercial breeder” or “Commercial dog broker” as defined by Indiana Code 15-21-1-4,  
 
(2) Municipal shelters, humane societies, rescue groups, or foster homes,  
 
(3) Dogs for whom a licensed veterinarian has signed a document  attesting to the contraindication of sterilization 
due to age or medical condition. Such dogs shall be treated, for the purpose of this Section to be altered, 
provided, however, that if such a dog is female and becomes pregnant, the litter must be reporte d to IACS in 
accordance with the provisions therein.  
 
(b) The owner or keeper of any unaltered dog older than six (6) months of age in Marion County shall register on 
the Marion County Unaltered Animal Registry. Registration shall be valid for one (1) year and must be updated 
annually.  
 
(c) B y registering, the owner  or keeper of an unaltered dog agrees to the Guidelines for Responsible Unaltered 
Animal Ownership, including: 
 
(1) An annual veterinary exam: A licensed veterinarian shall, at least once per year, conduct an examination 
through direct supervision of each dog and upon detection of any affliction, provide expertise in diagnosing 
and treating such affliction. This shall include an oral exam and the administration of core vaccinations as 
recommended by the American Veterinary Medical Association, including a current rabies vaccination for all 
dogs over 3 months of age and vaccinations necessary to prevent common canine diseases such as Parvovirus.

=== 2024-08-12 minutes, page 34 of 55 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 
 
 
 
 
38 
 
(2) Keeping records for a period of two (2) years from the date of birth as to the birth of each litter of dogs a nd 
keep records for a period of two (2) years from the date of sale of the name, address and telephone number of 
each buyer or new owner/guardian of any dog sold or transferred. 
 
(3) Reporting new litters to Indianapolis Animal Care Services prior to the birth of the puppies, or within two (2) 
weeks of the litter being born,   
 
(4) A female dog shall not be bred if the dog has not maintained a normal body condition and been declared healthy 
enough for breeding by a veterinarian following a physical examination. No female dog shall birth more than 
one litter per 18-month period without the written determination of a veterinarian that the dog is healthy enough 
for breeding, and no more than six litters in her lifetime 
 
Councilor Hart seconded the motion.  Councilor Roberts said that he considers this a friendly 
amendment, and they have worked hard on this issue and appreciate the collaboration of colleagues 
to help improve the proposal.  Proposal No. 207, 2024 was amended on the following roll call vote; 
viz: 
 
25 YEAS: Allen, Annee, Bain, Barth, Boots, Brown-A, Brown-J, Cahill, Carlino, Delaney, Dilk, 
Evans, Gibson, Graves, Hart, Jones, Lewis, Mascari, McCormick, Mowery, Nielsen, Osili, 
Perkins, Roberts, Robinson 
0 NAYS: 
 
Councilor Barth said that this proposal rides on the shoulders of community members who are 
doing good work.  He thanked those volunteers and advocates who have done incredible work in 
the community.   
 
Councilor Boots asked to be added as a co-sponsor.   
 
Councilor Lewis moved, seconded by Councilor A. Brown, for adoption, as amended.  Proposal 
No. 207, 2024 was adopted, as amended, on the following roll call vote; viz: 
 
25 YEAS: Allen, Annee, Bain, Barth, Boots, Brown-A, Brown-J, Cahill, Carlino, Delaney, Dilk, 
Evans, Gibson, Graves, Hart, Jones, Lewis, Mascari, McCormick, Mowery, Nielsen, Osili, 
Perkins, Roberts, Robinson 
0 NAYS: 
 
Proposal No. 207, 2024, as amended, was retitled GENERAL ORDINANCE NO. 26, 2024, and 
reads as follows: 
 
CITY-COUNTY GENERAL ORDINANCE NO. 26, 2024 
 
PROPOSAL FOR A GENERAL ORDINANCE to amend the Revised Code of the Consolidated City of Indianapolis -
Marion County Chapter 531, Animals, to allow for the registry of unaltered dogs. 
 
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE 
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA: 
 
SECTION 1. Chapter 531 Section 101 of the "Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County," is hereby amended 
by adding the language that is underlined to read as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I. GENERAL PROVISIONS

=== 2024-08-12 minutes, page 35 of 55 ===
August 12, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
39  
Sec. 531-101. Definitions 
 
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section.  
 
Animal means any living, nonhuman vertebrate creature.  
 
Animal care services division  means the animal care services division of the department of business and 
neighborhood services.  
 
Animal care services shelter means the shelter described in section 226-512 of this Code.  
 
At large means being loose and free roaming, not being on a leas h and under the control of a competent person, or 
any portion of the animal's body not being confined within a pen, corral, yard, cage, house, vehicle, or other secure 
enclosure or structure or by other means that prevents escape.  
 
Board means the board o f business and neighborhood services of the department of business and neighborhood 
services.  
 
Community cat means an unowned cat that has been captured, evaluated, ear tipped, sterilized and vaccinated against 
rabies by a licensed veterinarian and released in accordance with section 531-209 of this Code.  
 
Community cat caretaker means a person that provides food, water or outdoor areas of shelter to a community cat 
and who is not otherwise prohibited from owning or keeping animals.  
 
Crime prevention dog means and includes a dog that is trained and used by its owner or keeper primarily for the 
protection of persons or property, or both.  
 
Dangerous animal means any animal that:  
 
(1) Would constitute a danger to human life or property if it were not kept in the manner required by this chapter;  
 
(2) Has caused serious injury to a person without having been provoked by that person;  
 
(3) At a place other than its owner's or keepers property has:  
 
a. Chased or approached a person in a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack; or  
 
b. Attacked another domestic animal; or  
 
(4) Because of its training or behavior, is capable of inflicting physical harm or death to humans.  
 
Dog means and includes animals of the Canis familiaris species, and hybrids of a Canis familiaris and any other 
member of the Canis genus, including wolves.  
 
Domestic animals means rabbits, cattle, horses, ponies, mules, donkeys, jackasses, llamas, swine, sheep, goats, dogs, 
cats and poultry.  
 
Exposed to rabies means an animal has been exposed to rabies if it has been bitten by or been in contact with any 
animal known or reasonably suspected to have been infected with rabies.  
 
Free-roaming cat means a cat that is at large that does not possess an identification tag or microchip as required by 
section 501-202 of this Code nor has been ear tipped to indicate it is a community cat.  
 
Kennel means a facility operated commercially and principally for the purpose of boarding, housing, breeding or 
training dogs or cats , or both. For purposes of this chapter, kennel shall not include a facility in or adjoining a private 
residence where dogs or cats are kept for the hobby of the owner, lessee or other occupant of the property using the 
animals for hunting, practice tracki ng, exhibiting in shows or field or obedience trials or for the guarding or protecting

=== 2024-08-12 minutes, page 36 of 55 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 
 
 
 
 
40 
of the property, and an occasional sale of pups or kittens by the owner, lessee or other occupant of the property shall not 
make such property a kennel for the purposes of this chapter.  
 
Law enforcement animal means an animal that is owned or used by a law enforcement agency for the purpose of 
aiding in the detection of criminal activity, enforcement of laws, the apprehension of offenders and ensuring the public 
welfare.  
 
Marion County Unaltered Animal Registry means a free registry maintained by Indianapolis Animal Care Services 
("IACS”) of eligible individuals in Marion County owning at least one unaltered dog. Eligibility for the Registry shall be 
determined by IACS. The assessment of eligibility will include, but will not limited to, ordinance and criminal violations. 
 
Monitored means that the animal:  
 
(1) Is controlled by means of a leash or other device held by a competent person, subject to the provisions of  
sections 531-401 and 531-728, which animal is sufficiently near the owner or handler as to be under his or her 
direct control and is obedient to that person's command;  
 
(2) Is on or within a vehicle being driven or parked; or  
 
(3) Is confined as required by this chapter.  
 
Nonbite exposure means and includes scratches, abrasions, open wounds or mucous membranes contaminated with 
saliva or other potentially infectious material from a rabid animal.  
 
Own means to keep, harbor or have custody, charge or control of an animal, and owner means any person who owns 
an animal; however:  
 
(1) Veterinarians and operators of kennels, pet shops and stables, as those terms are defined in Chapter 836 of this 
Code, who temporarily keep animals owned by, or held for sale to other persons shall not be deemed to own 
or be owners, but rather to be keepers of such animals.  
 
(2) A community cat caretaker shall not be deemed to own or keep a community cat but rather to provide limited 
oversight of such animals.  
 
Person means and includes any individual, corporation, partnership or other association or orga nization, but shall 
exclude the following for purposes of section 531-401:  
 
(1) Police officers, federal or state armed forces, park rangers, game wardens, conservation officers and other such 
governmental agencies, with respect to actions that constitute a discharge of their official duties; and  
 
(2) An individual, partnership, corporation or other association, organization, or institution of higher education, 
that is registered as a research facility with the United States Secretary of Agriculture under  7 USC § 2131 et 
seq., commonly known as the "Animal Welfare Act," while engaged in the course of their performance as such.  
 
Provoke means the infliction of bodily harm on the animal or another person, or conduct that constitutes a substantial 
step toward the infliction of bodily harm on the animal or another person.  
 
Quarantining authority  means the department of business and neighborhood services, its contractors, agents, 
employees and designees, acting under directives and regulations of the Health and Hospital Corporation of Marion 
County or the state board of animal health.  
 
Registered Breeder means an individual residing in Marion County who is: 
 
(1) Not a “commercial breeder” as defined by Indiana Code 15-21-1-4 
 
(2) Registered on the Marion County Unaltered Animal Registry, and 
 
(3) Adheres to Guidelines for Responsible Unaltered Animal Ownership as further defined in this Chapter.

=== 2024-08-12 minutes, page 37 of 55 ===
August 12, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
41  
Serious injury  means any injury that results in permanent disfigurement, unconsciousness, extreme pain, or 
permanent or protracted loss or impairment of the function of a bodily member or organ and includes, in regard to an 
animal, an injury requiring euthanasia.  
 
Unregistered Breeder means: 
 
(1)  An individual residing in Marion County, who is:  
 
a. Not a “commercial breeder” as defined by Indiana Code 15-21-1-4, 
 
b. Home breeding one or more dogs at a time, and  
 
c. Not on the Marion County Unaltered Animal Registry. 
 
(2) An individual that does not adhere to Guidelines for Responsible Unaltered Animal Ownership or does not 
provide dogs and/or puppies adequate care as further defined in this Section 531-401). 
 
Veterinarian means a person licensed to practice veterinary medicine in the state.  
 
Wild animal means and includes:  
 
(1) A Class III wild animal for which a state permit is required under 310 IAC 3.1-11-8 and/or IC 14-22-26; and  
 
(2) A venomous snake, poisonous amphibian, or other large reptile.”  
 
SECTION 2. Chapter 531 Section 202 of the "Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County," is hereby amended 
by deleting the portions stricken through to read as follows: 
 
Sec 531-202. Permanent identification of dogs and cats required. 
 
(a) A person who owns a dog or cat in the consolidated city and county shall ensure that each dog or cat owned by 
that person bears a permanent means of identification at all times, such that the animal's owner can be ascertained 
accurately, quickly, and easily.  
 
(b) The means of identification required by this section shall be in addition to any tags required to be worn by dogs 
or cats by state law or other provision of this Code, and shall be either by means of:  
 
(1) A microchip implanted in the dog or cat or animal that bears a registered identification number, and that can 
be read by a standard microchip scanner.; or  
 
(2) A permanent tag attached to a durable collar worn at all times by the dog or cat, and bearing the owner's current 
name, address and telephone number.  
 
(c) Each veterinarian or other person in the consolidated city and county who implants microchips as contemplated 
in this section shall make available upon request to the animal care services division the names, addresses, and phone 
numbers of the owners of the dogs and cats, and the corresponding microchip identification numbers. Such records shall 
be available to animal care services division without court order.  
 
(d) It shall be unlawful for a person to own a dog or cat three (3) months of age or older that is kept in the city, and 
that does not bear a permanent means of identification as provided in this  section. A violation of this section shall be 
subject to an admission of violation and payment of the designated civil penalty through the ordinance violations bureau 
in accordance with chapter 103 of this Code.”  
 
SECTION 3. A new Section 413 of Chapter 531 of the "Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County," is hereby 
created by adding the language underlined to read as follows:

=== 2024-08-12 minutes, page 38 of 55 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 
 
 
 
 
42 
Sec. 531-413 Marion County Unaltered Animal Registry 
 
(d) This Section does not apply to:  
 
(1) “Commercial breeder” or “Commercial dog broker” as defined by Indiana Code 15-21-1-4,  
 
(2) Municipal shelters, humane societies, rescue groups, or foster homes,  
 
(3) Dogs for whom a licensed veterinarian has signed a document attesting to the contraindication of sterilization 
due to age or medical condition. Such dogs shall be treated, for the purpose of this Section to be altered, 
provided, however, that if such a dog is female and becomes pregnant, the litter must be reported to IACS in 
accordance with the provisions therein.  
 
(e) The owner or keeper of any unaltered dog older than six (6) months of age in Marion County shall register on 
the Marion County Unaltered Animal Registry. Registration shall be valid for one (1) year and must be updated 
annually.  
 
(f) B y registering, the owner or keeper of an unaltered dog agrees to the Guidelines for Responsible Unaltered 
Animal Ownership, including: 
 
(1) An annual veterinary exam: A licensed veterinarian shall, at least once per year, conduct an examination 
through direct supervision of each dog and upon detection of any affliction, provide expertise in diagnosing 
and treating such affliction. This shall include an oral exam and the administration of core vaccinations as 
recommended by the American Veterinary Medical Association, including a current rabies vaccination for all 
dogs over 3 months of age and vaccinations necessary to prevent common canine diseases such as Parvovirus.  
 
(2) Keeping records for a period of two (2) years from the date of birth as to the birth of each litter of dogs and 
keep records for a period of two (2) years from the date of sale of the name, address and telephone number of 
each buyer or new owner/guardian of any dog sold or transferred. 
 
(3) Reporting new litters to Indianapolis Animal Care Services prior to the birth of the puppies, or within two (2) 
weeks of the litter being born,   
 
(4) A female dog shall not be bred if the dog has not maintained a normal body condition and been declared healthy 
enough for breeding by a veterinarian following a physical examination. No female dog shall birth more than 
one litter per 18-month period without the written determination of a veterinarian that the dog is healthy enough 
for breeding, and no more than six litters in her lifetime 
 
(5) Obtaining a unique “Litter ID Number” from IACS that must be included in: 
 
(i) Any offer for the sale or transfer of the puppies, and  
 
(ii) Provided to the purchaser or recipient of any puppies. 
 
(6) Microchipping. All puppies shall be microchipped prior to being sold or transferred. New owners shall be 
responsible for updating the microchip information pursuant to Section 531-202. 
 
(d) Violations  
 
(1) An unregistered breeder commits a violation of this Code if they are the owner or keeper of any unaltered dog 
older than six (6) months of age in Marion County that is not registered on the Marion County Unaltered 
Animal Registry. 
 
(2) By registering, the owner or keeper of an unaltered dog agrees to the requirements in this section. 
 
(i) A first violation of this section in  any twelve-month period shall be subject to Education that will be 
provided by IACS/Animal Control to ensure 
 
A. Registration in the Marion County Unaltered Animal Registry (if determined to be eligible for the 
Registry pursuant to other provisions of this Section),

=== 2024-08-12 minutes, page 39 of 55 ===
August 12, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
43  
B. The owner or keeper of unaltered animal is aware of low-cost spay neuter services in Marion County 
and the benefits of spay/neuter, and 
 
C. The owner is supported in complying with the requirements of the ordinance, including, but not 
limited to, providing information on government and non- profit resources that can assist with 
transportation, housing, finances, and animal care, and direct assistance specific to the care of animals 
when budget and resources allow. 
 
D. Discretionary Recheck by an Animal Control Officer or other designee of IACS within thirty (30 
days). 
 
(ii) A second violation of this section in a twelve -month period shall be subject to all requirements in 
subsection above, and an admission of the violation and payment of the designated civil penalty, per 
animal, though the ordinance violations bureau in accordance with Chapter 10-3 of the Code. 
 
A. Fine is voidable if the owner or keeper schedules, within thirty (30) days, a spay/neuter procedure, 
and ensures the procedure  occurs within three (3) months. Evidence of scheduled appointment and 
completed procedure must be provided to IACS. 
 
(iii) A third violation in a twelve -month period shall be subject to the enforcement procedures and penalties 
provided in section 103-3 of the Code, and the fine imposed shall not be less than one hundred and fifty 
dollars ($150) per animal.” 
 
(e) Data Collection.  As part of the management and enforcement of this registry, Indianapolis Animal Care Services 
will collect and make available the following data points: 
(1) Quantity of registrants, 
(2) Quantity of litter IDs issued to registrants, 
(3) Origin of inspection, including method of intake, 
(4) Location of inspection, including street address and zip code, 
(5)  Inspection outcomes, including pending statuses, assessed penalties, and cases referred to the City Prosecutor, 
and 
(6) Specific resources provided to and requested by owners/keepers during or after the inspection process. 
SECTION 4.  Chapter 531 Section 728 of the Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County, is hereby amended by 
adding the language that is underlined to read as follows: 
 
Sec. 531-728. Additional restrictions on dangerous or nuisance owners or keepers of animals. 
 
(a) It shall be unlawful for any person who has been found in violation of sections 531- 102 (at large), 531 -103 
(animals in heat), 531-109 (animal attacks), 531-204 (nuisance), 531-206 (unlawful use), 531-401 (care and treatment), 
531-402 (abandonment), 531-404 (animal fights), ), 531-414 (Marion County Unaltered Animal Registry) or article V of 
this chapter, to own or keep more than two (2) dogs in the city or to own or keep any dog:  
 
(1) That has not been spayed or neutered by a veterinarian; or  
 
(2) That has not been implanted with a microchip with a registered identification number.  
 
(b) A person who has been found in violation of sections 531-102(c) (at large), 531-109 (animal attacks), 531-206 
(unlawful use), 531-404 (animal fights) or article V of this chapter commits a violation of the code  if any dog owned or 
kept by that person is outside a structural enclosure sufficient to confine the dog without means of escape, unless the dog 
is on a leash and under the control of a competent adult.” 
 
SECTION 5.  Chapter 531 Section 728 of the Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County, is hereby amended by 
adding the language that is underlined to read as follows: 
 
“Sec. 103-52. - Schedule of Code provisions and penalties. 
 
The following Code (or ordinance) provisions and their respective civil penalties are designated for enforcement 
through the ordinance violations bureau:

=== 2024-08-12 minutes, page 40 of 55 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 
 
 
 
 
44 
 
Code Section Subject Matter Civil Penalty 
531-414 Marion County Unaltered Animal Registry - second offense 50.00 
531-414 Marion County Unaltered Animal Registry – third or subsequent offense 150.00” 
 
SECTION 6.  Should any provision (section, paragraph, sentence, clause, or any other portion) of this ordinance be declared 
by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, the remaining provision or provisions shall not be affected, 
if and only if such remaining provisions can, without the invalid provision or provisions, be given the effect intended by the 
Council in adopting this ordinance.  To this end the provisions of this ordinance are severable. 
 
SECTION 7.  This ordinance shall be in effect from and after its passage by the Council and compliance with Ind. Code § 36-
3-4-14. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 208, 2024.  Councilor A. Brown reported that the Municipal Corporations 
Committee heard Proposal No. 208, 2024 on July 10, 2024.  The proposal, sponsored by Councilor 
A. Brown, approves the issuance of general obligation bonds for the Indianapolis -Marion County 
Public Library in an original aggregate principal amount not to exceed $6,350,000 for the Long-
Term Capital Maintenance and Equipment Upgrade Project, to improve patron experience and 
provide better access to information.  By an 11-0 vote, the committee reported the proposal to the 
full Council with the recommendation that it do pass.  Councilor A. Brown moved, seconded by 
Councilor Carlino, for adoption.  Proposal No. 208, 2024 was adopted on the following roll call 
vote; viz: 
 
25 YEAS: Allen, Annee, Bain, Barth, Boots, Brown-A, Brown-J, Cahill, Carlino, Delaney, Dilk, 
Evans, Gibson, Graves, Hart, Jones, Lewis, Mascari, McCormick, Mowery, Nielsen, Osili, 
Perkins, Roberts, Robinson 
0 NAYS:  
 
Proposal No. 208, 2024 was retitled SPECIAL ORDINANCE NO. 8, 2024, and reads as follows: 
 
CITY-COUNTY SPECIAL ORDINANCE NO. 8, 2024 
 
A SPECIAL ORDINANCE approving the issuance of “Indianapolis-Marion County Public Library General Obligation 
Bonds (2024 Long-Term Capital Maintenance and Equipment Update Project), Series 2024” in an original aggregate 
principal amount not to exceed Six Million Three Hundred Fifty Thousand Dollars ($6,350,000). 
 
WHEREAS, on June 24, 2024, the Library Board (the “Library Board”) of the Indianapolis -Marion County Public 
Library, Indiana (the “Public Library”), adopted Resolution 26- 2024 (the “2024 Long- Term Capital Maintenance and 
Equipment Update Project Resolution”) authorizing the issuance of one or more series of general obligation bonds of the 
Public Library to be designated as the “Indianapolis -Marion County Public Library General Obligation Bonds (2024 
Long-Term Capital Maintenance and Equipment Update Project), Series 2024” (collectively, the “2024 Long- Term 
Capital Maintenance and Equipment Update Project  Bonds”), in an original aggregate principal amount not to exceed 
Six Million Three Hundred Fifty Thousand Dollars ($6,350,000), for the purpose of procuring funds (a) to pay for the 
2024 Long-Term Capital Maintenance and Equipment Update Project (as defined in the 2024 Long-Term Capital 
Maintenance and Equipment Update Project Resolution) and costs related thereto, and (b) to pay the costs of issuance of 
the 2024 Long-Term Capital Maintenance and Equipment Update Project Bonds; and 
 
WHEREAS, the Library Board has requested the approval of the City -County Council of the issuance of the 2024 
Long-Term Capital Maintenance and Equipment Update Proj ect Bonds, pursuant to Indiana Code § 36-3-6-9(c), as 
amended, and the City -County Council now finds that the issuance of the 2024 Long -Term Capital Maintenance and 
Equipment Update Project Bonds should be approved; now, therefore: 
 
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE 
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA: 
 
SECTION 1.  For the purpose of providing funds for the 2024 Long -Term Capital Maintenance and Equipment Update 
Project, including, but not limited to, the costs of the issuance of the 2024 Long -Term Capital Maintenance and

=== 2024-08-12 minutes, page 41 of 55 ===
August 12, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
45  
Equipment Update Project Bonds, the City -County Council does hereby approve the issuance of the 2024 Long-Term 
Capital Maintenance and Equipment Update Project  Bonds in one or more series, as general obligation bonds of the 
Public Library, anticipated to be designated as “Indianapolis -Marion County Public Library General Obligation Bonds, 
Series 2024,” in an original aggregate principal amount not to exceed Six Million Three Hundred Fifty Thousand Dollars 
($6,350,000), bearing interest at a rate or rates not to exceed five and one-half percent (5.50%) and having a final maturity 
no later than seven (7) years from the date such 2024 Long-Term Capital Maintenance and Equipment Update Project  
Bonds are issued. 
 
SECTION 2.  Any and all prior actions taken by any officer of the Public Library, the City or any member of the Library 
Board or the City-County Council in connection and consistent with this Ordinance is hereby ratified and approved. 
 
SECTION 3. This Ordinance shall be in full force and effect upon adoption and compliance with Indiana Code §§ 36-3-
4-14, 36-3-4-15, 36-3-4-16 and 36-3-4-17, each as amended. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 210, 2024.  Councilor Boots reported that the Rules and Public Policy Committee 
heard Proposal No. 210, 2024 on July 23, 2024.  The proposal, sponsored by Councilor Robinson, 
directs the Rules and Public Policy Committee to review and prepare a report pertaining to the 
fiscal impact statement associated with the IMPD/civilian AFSCME union agreement.  Councilor 
Boots stated that the Revised Code of the City of Indianapolis – Marion County, Section 291-610, 
requires that before a union agreement can be effective and enforceable, the Rules and Public Policy 
Committee must review the Fiscal Impact Statement associated with tentative union agreements 
and issue a report.  At a public hearing, the Rules Committee reviewed the fiscal impact statement 
associated with the AFSCME union agre ement with IMPD’s MESA employees, submitted in 
Proposal 210, 2024, and prepared a report that has been submitted to the clerk to be added to the 
council’s Journals for this day.   
 
President Osili stated that the report has been received and no further action is required. 
 
Councilor Jones reported that the Public Works Committee heard Proposal Nos. 211-224, 2024 on 
July 18, 2024,   
 
PROPOSAL NO. 211, 2024.  The proposal, sponsored by Councilor Hart , approves weight limit 
restrictions on Mitthoeffer Road, from East Washington Street to Prospect Street, and on Prospect 
Street, from South Post Road to South County Line Road 800 West (District 20).  By a 10-0 vote, 
the committee reported the proposal to t he full Council with the recommendation that it do pass.  
Councilor Jones moved, seconded by Councilor A. Brown, for adoption.  Proposal No. 211, 2024 
was adopted on the following roll call vote; viz: 
 
25 YEAS: Allen, Annee, Bain, Barth, Boots, Brown-A, Brown-J, Cahill, Carlino, Delaney, Dilk, 
Evans, Gibson, Graves, Hart, Jones, Lewis, Mascari, McCormick, Mowery, Nielsen, Osili, 
Perkins, Roberts, Robinson 
0 NAYS:  
 
Proposal No. 211, 2024 was retitled GENERAL ORDINANCE NO. 27, 2024, and reads as follows: 
 
CITY-COUNTY GENERAL ORDINANCE NO. 27, 2024 
 
A PROPOSAL FOR A GENERAL ORDINANCE amending the Revised Code to make various changes to Chapter 441, 
traffic.  
 
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE 
CITY OF INIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA:

=== 2024-08-12 minutes, page 42 of 55 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 
 
 
 
 
46 
 
SECTION 1.  That the revised code of the Consolidated City and County, Indianapolis/Marion County, Indiana, 
specifically Sec. 441-364(e). – Vehicles on certain streets restricted, be, and the same is hereby amended by the addition 
of the following, to wit:  
 
11,000 POUNDS GROSS WEIGHT 
 
Mitthoeffer Road, from East Washington Street to Prospect Street 
Prospect Street, from South Post Road to S County Line Road 800 W. 
 
SECTION 2. The expressed or implied repeal or amendment by this ordinance of any other ordinance or part of any other 
ordinance does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective 
date of this ordinance. Those rights, liabilities, and proceedings are continued, and penalties shall be imposed and 
enforced under the repealed or amended ordinance as if this ordinance had not been adopted.  
 
SECTION 4. Should any provision (section, paragraph, sente nce, clause, or any other portion) of this ordinance be 
declared by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, the remaining provision or provisions shall not 
be affected, if and only if such remaining provisions can, without the invalid provision or provisions, be given the effect 
intended by the council in adopting this ordinance. To this end the provisions of this ordinance are severable.  
 
SECTION 5. This ordinance shall be in effect from and after its passage by the Council and com pliance with Ind. Code 
§ 36-3-4-14.  
 
Councilor Jones asked for consent to hear Proposal Nos. 212- 216, 2024 together.  Consent was 
given. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 212, 2024.  The proposal, sponsored by Councilors Barth and Gibson, authorizes 
a speed limit reduction to 25 mph along Delaware Street, from Penway Street to 40th Street 
(Districts 7, 8) .  PROPOSAL NO. 213, 2024.  The proposal, sponsored by Councilor Boots , 
authorizes a speed limit reduction to 25 mph in the Heritage Park subdivision (District 3) .  
PROPOSAL NO. 214, 2024.  The proposal, sponsored by Councilor Mascari, authorizes a speed 
limit reduction to 25 mph along Redfern Drive, from Sherman Drive to 9th Avenue (District 19) .   
PROPOSAL NO. 215, 2024.  The proposal, spo nsored by Councilor Annee , authorizes a speed 
limit reduction to 25 mph in the Rosebrock Estates subdivision (District 22) .  PROPOSAL NO. 
216, 2024.  The proposal, sponsored by Councilor Annee, authorizes a speed limit reduction to 25 
mph in the Plantation Meadows subdivision (District 22).  By 10-0 votes, the committee reported 
the proposals to the full Council with the recommendation that they  do pass.  Councilor Jones 
moved, seconded by Councilor Boots , for adoption.  Proposal Nos . 212-216, 2024 were adopted 
on the following roll call vote; viz: 
 
25 YEAS: Allen, Annee, Bain, Barth, Boots, Brown-A, Brown-J, Cahill, Carlino, Delaney, Dilk, 
Evans, Gibson, Graves, Hart, Jones, Lewis, Mascari, McCormick, Mowe ry, Nielsen, Osili, 
Perkins, Roberts, Robinson 
0 NAYS:  
 
Proposal No. 212, 2024 was retitled GENERAL ORDINANCE NO. 28, 2024, and reads as follows: 
 
CITY-COUNTY GENERAL ORDINANCE NO. 28, 2024 
 
PROPOSAL FOR A GENERAL ORDINANCE to amend the Revised Code to make various changes to Chapter 441, Traffic. 
 
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE 
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA:

=== 2024-08-12 minutes, page 43 of 55 ===
August 12, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
47  
SECTION 1.  That the Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County, Indianapolis/Marion County, Indiana, 
specifically Sec. 441-323, Alteration of prima facie speed limits, be, and the same is hereby amended by the addition of 
the following, to wit: 
 
Delaware Street, from Penway Street to Fortieth Street, 25 mph. 
 
SECTION 2.  The expressed or implied repeal or amendment by this ordinance of any other ordinance or part of any other 
ordinance does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date 
of this ordinance.  Those rights, liabilities, and proceedings are continued, and penalties shall be imposed and enforced under 
the repealed or amended ordinance as if this ordinance had not been adopted. 
 
SECTION 3.  Should any provision (section, paragraph, sentence, clause, or any other portion) of this ordinance be declared 
by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, the remaining provision or provisions shall not be affected, 
if and only if such remaining provisions can, without the invalid provision or provisions, be given the effect intended by the 
Council in adopting this ordinance.  To this end the provisions of this ordinance are severable. 
 
SECTION 4.  This ordinance shall be in effect from and after its passage by the Council and compliance with Ind. Code § 36-
3-4-14. 
 
Proposal No. 213, 2024 was retitled GENERAL ORDINANCE NO. 29, 2024, and reads as follows: 
 
CITY-COUNTY GENERAL ORDINANCE NO. 29, 2024 
 
PROPOSAL FOR A GENERAL ORDINANCE to amend the Revised Code to make various changes to Chapter 441, Traffic. 
 
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE 
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA: 
 
SECTION 1.  That the Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County, Indianapolis/Marion County, Indiana, 
specifically Sec. 441-323, Alteration of prima facie speed limits, be, and the same is hereby amended by the addition of 
the following, to wit: 
 
All local streets within the Heritage Park platted subdivision, 25 mph. 
 
SECTION 2.  The expressed or implied repeal or amendment by this ordinance of any other ordinance or part of any other 
ordinance does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date 
of this ordinance.  Those rights, liabilities, and proceedings are continued, and penalties shall be imposed and enforced under 
the repealed or amended ordinance as if this ordinance had not been adopted. 
 
SECTION 3.  Should any provision (section, paragraph, sentence, clause, or any other portion) of this ordinance be declared 
by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, the remaining provision or provisions shall not be affected, 
if and only if such remaining provisions can, without the invalid provision or provisions, be given the effect intended by the 
Council in adopting this ordinance.  To this end the provisions of this ordinance are severable. 
 
SECTION 4.  This ordinance shall be in effect from and after its passage by the Council and compliance with Ind. Code § 36-
3-4-14. 
 
Proposal No. 214, 2024 was retitled GENERAL ORDINANCE NO. 30, 2024, and reads as follows: 
 
CITY-COUNTY GENERAL ORDINANCE NO. 30, 2024 
 
PROPOSAL FOR A GENERAL ORDINANCE to amend the Revised Code to make various changes to Chapter 441, Traffic. 
 
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE 
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA:

=== 2024-08-12 minutes, page 44 of 55 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 
 
 
 
 
48 
SECTION 1.  That the Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County, Indianapolis/Marion County, Indiana, 
specifically Sec. 441-323, Alteration of prima facie speed limits, be, and the same is hereby amended by the addition of 
the following, to wit: 
 
Redfern Drive, from Sherman Drive to Nineth Avenue, 25 mph. 
 
SECTION 2.  The expressed or implied repeal or amendment by this ordinance of any other ordinance or part of any other 
ordinance does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date 
of this ordinance.  Those rights, liabilities, and proceedings are continued, and penalties shall be imposed and enforced under 
the repealed or amended ordinance as if this ordinance had not been adopted. 
 
SECTION 3.  Should any provision (section, paragraph, sentence, clause, or any other portion) of this ordinance be declared 
by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, the remaining provision or provisions shall not be affected, 
if and only if such remaining provisions can, without the invalid provision or provisions, be given the effect intended by the 
Council in adopting this ordinance.  To this end the provisions of this ordinance are severable. 
 
SECTION 4.  This ordinance shall be in effect from and after its passage by the Council and compliance with Ind. Code § 36-
3-4-14. 
 
Proposal No. 215, 2024 was retitled GENERAL ORDINANCE NO. 31, 2024, and reads as follows: 
 
CITY-COUNTY GENERAL ORDINANCE NO. 31, 2024 
 
PROPOSAL FOR A GENERAL ORDINANCE to amend the Revised Code to make various changes to Chapter 441, Traffic. 
 
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE 
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA: 
 
SECTION 1.  That the Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County, Indianapolis/Marion County, Indiana, 
specifically Sec. 441-323, Alteration of prima facie speed limits, be, and the same is hereby amended by the addition of 
the following, to wit: 
 
All local streets within the Rosebrock Estates platted subdivision, 25 mph. 
 
SECTION 2.  The expressed or implied repeal or amendment by this ordinance of any other ordinance or part of any other 
ordinance does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date 
of this ordinance.  Those rights, liabilities, and proceedings are continued, and penalties shall be imposed and enforced under 
the repealed or amended ordinance as if this ordinance had not been adopted. 
 
SECTION 3.  Should any provision (section, paragraph, sentence, clause, or any other portion) of this ordinance be declared 
by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, the remaining provision or provisions shall not be affected, 
if and only if such remaining provisions can, without the invalid provision or provisions, be given the effect intended by the 
Council in adopting this ordinance.  To this end the provisions of this ordinance are severable. 
 
SECTION 4.  This ordinance shall be in effect from and after its passage by the Council and compliance with Ind. Code § 36-
3-4-14. 
 
Proposal No. 216, 2024 was retitled GENERAL ORDINANCE NO. 32, 2024, and reads as follows: 
 
CITY-COUNTY GENERAL ORDINANCE NO. 32, 2024 
 
PROPOSAL FOR A GENERAL ORDINANCE to amend the Revised Code to make various changes to Chapter 441, Traffic. 
 
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE 
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA: 
 
SECTION 1.  That the Revised Code of the Consolidated City and County, Indianapolis/Marion County, Indiana, 
specifically Sec. 441-323, Alteration of prima facie speed limits, be, and the same is hereby amended by the addition of 
the following, to wit:

=== 2024-08-12 minutes, page 45 of 55 ===
August 12, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
49  
All local streets within the Plantation Meadows platted subdivision, 25 mph. 
 
SECTION 2.  The expressed or implied repeal or amendment by this ordinance of any other ordinance or part of any other 
ordinance does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date 
of this ordinance.  Those rights, liabilities, and proceedings are continued, and penalties shall be imposed and enforced under 
the repealed or amended ordinance as if this ordinance had not been adopted. 
 
SECTION 3.  Should any provision (section, paragraph, sentence, clause, or any other portion) of this ordinance be declared 
by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, the remaining provision or provisions shall not be affected, 
if and only if such remaining provisions can, without the invalid provision or provisions, be given the effect intended by the 
Council in adopting this ordinance.  To this end the provisions of this ordinance are severable. 
 
SECTION 4.  This ordinance shall be in effect from and after its passage by the Council and compliance with Ind. Code § 36-
3-4-14. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 217, 2024.  The proposal, sponsored by Councilor Annee, approves a request of 
the Department of Public Works to purchase certai n real estate interests for the Bluff Road 
Reconstruction Project, which property is owned by Jerry Hornback.  By a 10-0 vote, the committee 
reported the proposal to the full Council with the recommendation that it do pass.  Councilor Jones 
moved, seconded by Councilor Carlino, for adoption.  Proposal No. 217, 2024 was adopted on the 
following roll call vote; viz: 
 
25 YEAS: Allen, Annee, Bain, Barth, Boots, Brown-A, Brown-J, Cahill, Carlino, Delaney, Dilk, 
Evans, Gibson, Graves, Hart, Jones, Lewis, Mascari, McCormick, Mowery, Nielsen, Osili, 
Perkins, Roberts, Robinson 
0 NAYS:  
 
Proposal No. 217, 2024 was retitled GENERAL RESOLUTION NO. 30, 2024 , and reads as 
follows: 
 
CITY-COUNTY GENERAL RESOLUTION NO. 30, 2024 
 
PROPOSAL FOR A GENERAL RESOLUTION establishing that the City-County Council of the City of Indianapolis and 
Marion County, Indiana, is interested in making the purchase of specified land. 
 
WHEREAS, the City-County Council of the Consolidated City of Indianapolis and Marion County, Indiana (the “City”) 
is the fiscal body of the City pursuant to IC 36-1-2-6; and 
 
WHEREAS, pursuant to IC 36-1-10.5-1, et seq., the City may purchase interests in land for a total price exceeding 
twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000) only after the City-County Council, as the fiscal body, passes a resolution to the effect 
that it is interested in making a purchase of the specified land; and 
 
WHEREAS, the City, through its Department of Public Works (“DPW”), wishes to purchase fee simple title to the real 
estate described in Exhibit “A” and depicted in Exhibit “B” attached hereto and incorporated herein (the “Real Estate”); and   
 
WHEREAS, acquisition of the Real Estate is needed for the construction and maintenance of DPW Project Number 
SD-22-103; the Bluff Road Reconstruction Project; and 
 
WHEREAS, the City-County Council, having considered the acquisition of the Real Estate and being duly advised, 
finds that the City-County Council has an interest in acquiring the Real Estate; now, therefore: 
 
BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE 
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA:

=== 2024-08-12 minutes, page 46 of 55 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 
 
 
 
 
50 
SECTION 1.  The City-County Council hereby establishes that it has an interest in acquiring the Real Estate described in 
Exhibit “A” attached to and incorporated into the official copy of this Resolution on file with the Clerk of the Council. 
 
SECTION 2.  For purposes of Revised Code Sec. 151-66, the Real Estate is owned by Jerry Hornback.  
 
SECTION 3.  DPW is directed to appoint two (2) apprais ers to appraise the fair market value of the Real Estate and to 
provide a copy of both appraisals to the Chair of the Public Works Committee of the City-County-Council. 
 
SECTION 4. This resolution shall be in effect from and after its passage by the Council and compliance with Indiana Code § 
36-3-4-14. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 218, 2024.  The proposal, sponsored by Councilor Annee, approves a request of 
the Department of Public Works to purchase certain real estate interests for the Bluff Road 
Reconstruction Project, which property is owned by Henry Arnold.  By a 10-0 vote, the committee 
reported the proposal to the full Council with the recommendation that it do pass.  Councilor Jones 
moved, seconded by Councilor Lewis, for adoption.  Proposal No. 218, 2024 was adopted on the 
following roll call vote; viz: 
 
25 YEAS: Allen, Annee, Bain, Barth, Boots, Brown-A, Brown-J, Cahill, Carlino, Delaney, Dilk, 
Evans, Gibson, Graves, Hart, Jones, Lewis, Mascari, McCormick, Mowery, Nielsen, Osili, 
Perkins, Roberts, Robinson 
0 NAYS:  
 
Proposal No. 218, 2024 was retitled GENERAL RESOLUTION NO. 3 1, 2024, and reads as 
follows: 
 
CITY-COUNTY GENERAL RESOLUTION NO. 31, 2024 
 
PROPOSAL FOR A GENERAL RESOLUTION establishing that the City-County Council of the City of Indianapolis and 
Marion County, Indiana, is interested in making the purchase of specified land. 
 
WHEREAS, the City-County Council of the Consolidated City of Indianapolis and Marion County, Indiana (the “City”) 
is the fiscal body of the City pursuant to IC 36-1-2-6; and 
 
WHEREAS, pursuant to IC 36-1-10.5-1, et seq., the City may purchase interests in land for a total price exceeding 
twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000) only after the City-County Council, as the fiscal body, passes a resolution to the effect 
that it is interested in making a purchase of the specified land; and 
 
WHEREAS, the City, through its Department of Public Works (“DPW”), wishes to purchase fee simple title to the real 
estate described in Exhibit “A” and depicted in Exhibit “B” attached hereto and incorporated herein (the “Real Estate”); and   
 
WHEREAS, acquisition of the Real Estate is needed for the construction and maintenance of DPW Project Number 
SD-22-103; the Bluff Road Reconstruction Project; and 
 
WHEREAS, the City-County Council, having considered the acquisition of the Real Estate and being duly advised, 
finds that the City-County Council has an interest in acquiring the Real Estate; now, therefore: 
 
BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE 
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA: 
 
SECTION 1.  The City-County Council hereby establishes that it has an interest in acquiring the Real Estate described in 
Exhibit “A” attached to and incorporated into the official copy of this Resolution on file with the Clerk of the Council. 
 
SECTION 2.  For purposes of Revised Code Sec. 151-66, the Real Estate is owned by Henry Arnold.  
 
SECTION 3.  DPW is directed to appoint two (2) appraisers to appraise the fair market value of the Real Estate and to 
provide a copy of both appraisals to the Chair of the Public Works Committee of the City-County-Council.

=== 2024-08-12 minutes, page 47 of 55 ===
August 12, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
51  
SECTION 4. This resolution shall be in effect from and after its passage by the Council and compliance with Indiana Code § 
36-3-4-14. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 2 19, 2024.  The proposal, sponsored by Councilor McCormick, approves a 
request of the Department of Public Works to purchase certain real estate interests for the Girls 
School Road from Perimeter Road to 21st Street Project, which property is owned by Mahrdt 
Family Properties II, LLC.  By a 10-0 vote, the committee reported the proposal to the full Council 
with the recommendation that it do pass.  Councilor Jones moved, seconded by Councilor 
McCormick, for adoption.  Proposal No. 219, 2024 was adopted on the following roll call vote; 
viz: 
 
25 YEAS: Allen, Annee, Bain, Barth, Boots, Brown-A, Brown-J, Cahill, Carlino, Delaney, Dilk, 
Evans, Gibson, Graves, Hart, Jones, Lewis, Mascari, McCormick, Mowery, Nielsen, Osili, 
Perkins, Roberts, Robinson 
0 NAYS:  
 
Proposal No. 219, 2024 was retitled GENERAL RESOLUTION NO. 32, 20 24, and reads as 
follows: 
 
CITY-COUNTY GENERAL RESOLUTION NO. 32, 2024 
 
PROPOSAL FOR A GENERAL RESOLUTION establishing that the City-County Council of the City of Indianapolis and 
Marion County, Indiana, is interested in making the purchase of specified land. 
 
WHEREAS, the City-County Council of the Consolidated City of Indianapolis and Marion County, Indiana (the “City”) 
is the fiscal body of the City pursuant to IC 36-1-2-6; and 
 
WHEREAS, pursuant to IC 36-1-10.5-1, et seq., the City may purchase interests in land for a total price exceeding 
twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000) only after the City-County Council, as the fiscal body, passes a resolution to the effect 
that it is interested in making a purchase of the specified land; and 
 
WHEREAS, the City, through its Department of Public Works (“DPW”), wishes to purchase fee simple title to the real 
estate described in Exhibit “A” and depicted in Exhibit “B” attached hereto and incorporated herein (the “Real Estate”); and   
 
WHEREAS, acquisition of the Real Estate is needed for the construction and maintenance of DPW Project Number 
ST-29-020; the Girls School Rd from Perimeter Rd to 21st St Project; and 
 
WHEREAS, the City-County Council, having considered the acquisition of the Real Estate and being duly advised, 
finds that the City-County Council has an interest in acquiring the Real Estate; now, therefore: 
 
BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE 
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA: 
 
SECTION 1.  The City-County Council hereby establishes that it has an interest in acquiring the Real Estate described in 
Exhibit “A” attached to and incorporated into the official copy of this Resolution on file with the Clerk of the Council. 
 
SECTION 2.  For purposes of Revised Code Sec. 151-66, the Real Estate is owned by Mahrdt Family Properties II, LLC.  
 
SECTION 3.  DPW is directed to appoint two (2) appraisers to appraise the fair market value of the Real Estate and to 
provide a copy of both appraisals to the Chair of the Public Works Committee of the City-County-Council. 
 
SECTION 4. This resolution shall be in effect from and after its passage by the Council and compliance with Indiana Code § 
36-3-4-14.

=== 2024-08-12 minutes, page 48 of 55 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 
 
 
 
 
52 
PROPOSAL NO. 220, 2024.  The proposal, sponsored by Councilor Evans, approves a request of 
the Department of Public Works to purchase certain real estate interests for the Girls School Road 
from Perimeter Road to 21st Street Project, which property is owned by Eco-Bat Indiana, LLC.  By 
a 10-0 vote, the committee reported the proposal to the full Council with the recommendation that 
it do pass.  Councilor Carlino said that in District 11 just north of this project is a youth sports park.  
She asked if there has been any partnership consider ed to get this project to run all the way up to 
that park.  Brandon Herget, Director, Department of Public Works, said that he does not believe 
they have engaged in any conversation about that, but he would be happy to talk to Councilor 
Carlino about that possibility.  Councilor Jones moved, seconded by Councilor A. Brown, for 
adoption.  Proposal No. 220, 2024 was adopted on the following roll call vote; viz: 
 
25 YEAS: Allen, Annee, Bain, Barth, Boots, Brown-A, Brown-J, Cahill, Carlino, Delaney, Dilk, 
Evans, Gibson, Graves, Hart, Jones, Lewis, Mascari, McCormick, Mowery, Nielsen, Osili, 
Perkins, Roberts, Robinson 
0 NAYS:  
 
Proposal No. 220, 2024 was retitled GENERAL RESOLUTION NO. 33, 2024 , and reads as 
follows: 
 
CITY-COUNTY GENERAL RESOLUTION NO. 33, 2024 
 
PROPOSAL FOR A GENERAL RESOLUTION establishing that the City-County Council of the City of Indianapolis and 
Marion County, Indiana, is interested in making the purchase of specified land. 
 
WHEREAS, the City-County Council of the Consolidated City of Indianapolis and Marion County, Indiana (the “City”) 
is the fiscal body of the City pursuant to IC 36-1-2-6; and 
 
WHEREAS, pursuant to IC 36-1-10.5-1, et seq., the City may purchase interests in land for a total price exceeding 
twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000) only after the City-County Council, as the fiscal body, passes a resolution to the effect 
that it is interested in making a purchase of the specified land; and 
 
WHEREAS, the City, through its Department of Public Works (“DPW”), wishes to purchase fee simple title to the real 
estate described in Exhibit “A” and depicted in Exhibit “B” attached hereto and incorporated herein (the “Real Estate”); and   
 
WHEREAS, acquisition of the Real Estate is needed for the construction and maintenance of DPW Project Number 
ST-29-020; the Girls School Rd from Perimeter Rd to 21st St Project; and 
 
WHEREAS, the City-County Council, having considered the acquisition of the Real Estate and being duly advised, 
finds that the City-County Council has an interest in acquiring the Real Estate; now, therefore: 
 
BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE 
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA: 
 
SECTION 1.  The City-County Council hereby establishes that it has an interest in acquiring the Real Estate described in 
Exhibit “A” attached to and incorporated into the official copy of this Resolution on file with the Clerk of the Council. 
 
SECTION 2.  For purposes of Revised Code Sec. 151-66, the Real Estate is owned by Eco-Bat Indiana, LLC.  
 
SECTION 3.  DPW is directed to appoint two (2) appraisers to appraise the fair market value of the Real Estate and to 
provide a copy of both appraisals to the Chair of the Public Works Committee of the City-County-Council. 
 
SECTION 4. This resolution shall be in effect from and after its passage by the Council and compliance with Indiana Code § 
36-3-4-14. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 221, 2024.  The proposal, sponsored by Councilor Evans, approves a request of 
the Department of Public Works to purchase certain real estate interests for the Girls School Road

=== 2024-08-12 minutes, page 49 of 55 ===
August 12, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
53  
from Perimeter Road to 21st Street Project, which property is owned by Dayton Hudson, Corp.  By 
a 10-0 vote, the committee reported the proposal to the full Council with the recommendation that 
it do pass.  Councilor Jones moved, seconded by Councilor Carlino,  for adoption.  Proposal No. 
221, 2024 was adopted on the following roll call vote; viz: 
 
25 YEAS: Allen, Annee, Bain, Barth, Boots, Brown-A, Brown-J, Cahill, Carlino, Delaney, Dilk, 
Evans, Gibson, Graves, Hart, Jones, Lewis, Mascari, McCormick, Mowery, Nielsen, Osili, 
Perkins, Roberts, Robinson 
0 NAYS:  
 
Proposal No. 221, 2024 was retitled GENERAL RESOLUTION NO. 34, 2024 , and reads as 
follows: 
 
CITY-COUNTY GENERAL RESOLUTION NO. 34, 2024 
 
PROPOSAL FOR A GENERAL RESOLUTION establishing that the City-County Council of the City of Indianapolis and 
Marion County, Indiana, is interested in making the purchase of specified land. 
 
WHEREAS, the City-County Council of the Consolidated City of Indianapolis and Marion County, Indiana (the “City”) 
is the fiscal body of the City pursuant to IC 36-1-2-6; and 
 
WHEREAS, pursuant to IC 36-1-10.5-1, et seq., the City may purchase interests in land for a total price exceeding 
twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000) only after the City-County Council, as the fiscal body, passes a resolution to the effect 
that it is interested in making a purchase of the specified land; and 
 
WHEREAS, the City, through its Department of Public Works (“DPW”), wishes to purchase fee simple title to the real 
estate described in Exhibit “A” and depicted in Exhibit “B” attached hereto and incorporated herein (the “Real Estate”); and   
 
WHEREAS, acquisition of the Real Estate is needed for the construction and maintenance of DPW Project Number 
ST-29-020; the Girls School Rd from Perimeter Rd to 21st St Project; and 
 
WHEREAS, the City-County Council, having considered the acquisition of the Real Estate and being duly advised, 
finds that the City-County Council has an interest in acquiring the Real Estate; now, therefore: 
 
BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE 
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA: 
 
SECTION 1.  The City-County Council hereby establishes that it has an interest in acquiring the Real Estate described in 
Exhibit “A” attached to and incorporated into the official copy of this Resolution on file with the Clerk of the Council. 
 
SECTION 2.  For purposes of Revised Code Sec. 151-66, the Real Estate is owned by Dayton Hudson, Corp.  
 
SECTION 3.  DPW is directed to appoint two (2) appraisers to appraise the fair market value of the Real Estate and to 
provide a copy of both appraisals to the Chair of the Public Works Committee of the City-County-Council. 
 
SECTION 4. This resolution shall be in effect from and after its passage by the Council and compliance with Indiana Code § 
36-3-4-14. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 222, 2024.  The proposal, sponsored by Councilor Allen, approves a request of 
the Department of Public Works to purchase certain real estate interests for preservation of the 
floodplain and future habitat restoration work, which property is owned by Rudolph and Anna 
Rouhana.  Councilor Boots said that this is near the Grassy Creek project and he asked if it is part 
of the project or was part of the reason the purchase of this land is important.  Director Herget said 
that it is partially a part of the reason .  He said that they are trying to be good land stewards  with

=== 2024-08-12 minutes, page 50 of 55 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 
 
 
 
 
54 
the resources they have, and ask what they can do to proactively conserve or preserve.  He said that 
this is adjacent to the Grassy Creek project and it was available and on the market and would benefit 
stormwater as well, so it was a strategic land acquisition.  By a 10-0 vote, the committee reported 
the proposal to the full Council with the recommendation that it do pass.  Councilor Jones moved, 
seconded by Councilor A. Brown,  for adoption.  Proposal No. 222 , 2024 was adopted on the 
following roll call vote; viz: 
 
25 YEAS: Allen, Annee, Bain, Barth, Boots, Brown-A, Brown-J, Cahill, Carlino, Delaney, Dilk, 
Evans, Gibson, Graves, Hart, Jones, Lewis, Mascari, McCormick, Mowery, Nielsen, Osili, 
Perkins, Roberts, Robinson 
0 NAYS:  
 
Proposal No. 222, 2024 was retitled GENERAL RESOLUTION NO. 35, 2024 , and reads as 
follows: 
 
CITY-COUNTY GENERAL RESOLUTION NO. 35, 2024 
 
PROPOSAL FOR A GENERAL RESOLUTION establishing that the City-County Council of the City of Indianapolis and 
Marion County, Indiana, is interested in making the purchase of specified land. 
 
WHEREAS, the City-County Council of the Consolidated City of Indianapolis and Marion County, Indiana (the “City”) 
is the fiscal body of the City pursuant to IC 36-1-2-6; and 
 
WHEREAS, pursuant to IC 36-1-10.5-1, et seq., the City may purchase interests in land for a total price exceeding 
twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000) only after the City-County Council, as the fiscal body, passes a resolution to the effect 
that it is interested in making a purchase of the specified land; and 
 
WHEREAS, the City, through its Department of Public Works (“DPW”), wishes to purchase fee simple title to the real 
estate depicted in Exhibit “A” attached hereto and incorporated herein (the “Real Estate”); and   
 
WHEREAS, acquisition of the Real Estate will be set aside for preservation of the floodplain and future habitat 
restoration work; and 
 
WHEREAS, the City-County Council, having considered the acquisition of the Real Estate and being duly advised, 
finds that the City-County Council has an interest in acquiring the Real Estate; now, therefore: 
 
BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE 
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA: 
 
SECTION 1.  The City-County Council hereby establishes that it has an interest in acquiring the Real Estate depicted in 
Exhibit “A” attached to and incorporated into the official copy of this Resolution on file with the Clerk of the Council. 
 
SECTION 2.  For purposes of Revised Code Sec. 151-66, the Real Estate is owned by Rudolph Rouhana & Anna Rouhana.  
 
SECTION 3.  DPW is directed to appoint two (2) appraisers to appraise the fair market value of the Real Estate and to 
provide a copy of both appraisals to the Chair of the Public Works Committee of the City-County-Council. 
 
SECTION 4. This resolution shall be in effect from and after its passage by the Council and compliance with Indiana Code § 
36-3-4-14. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 223, 2024.  The proposal, sponsored by Councilor McCormick, approves a 
request of the Department of Public Works to purchase certain real estate interests for the Girls 
School Road from Perimeter Road to 21st Street Project, which property is owned by Button Habit, 
LLC.  By a 10-0 vote, the com mittee reported the proposal to the full Council with the 
recommendation that it do pass.  Councilor Jones moved, seconded by Councilor A. Brown, for 
adoption.  Proposal No. 223, 2024 was adopted on the following roll call vote; viz:

=== 2024-08-12 minutes, page 51 of 55 ===
August 12, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
55  
 
25 YEAS: Allen, Annee, Bain, Barth, Boots, Brown-A, Brown-J, Cahill, Carlino, Delaney, Dilk, 
Evans, Gibson, Graves, Hart, Jones, Lewis, Mascari, McCormick, Mowery, Nielsen, Osili, 
Perkins, Roberts, Robinson 
0 NAYS:  
 
Proposal No. 223, 2024 was retitled GENERAL RESOLUTION NO. 36, 2024, and reads as 
follows: 
 
CITY-COUNTY GENERAL RESOLUTION NO. 36, 2024 
 
PROPOSAL FOR A GENERAL RESOLUTION establishing that the City-County Council of the City of Indianapolis and 
Marion County, Indiana, is interested in making the purchase of specified land. 
 
WHEREAS, the City-County Council of the Consolidated City of Indianapolis and Marion County, Indiana (the “City”) 
is the fiscal body of the City pursuant to IC 36-1-2-6; and 
 
WHEREAS, pursuant to IC 36-1-10.5-1, et seq., the City may purchase interests in land for a total price exceeding 
twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000) only after the City-County Council, as the fiscal body, passes a resolution to the effect 
that it is interested in making a purchase of the specified land; and 
 
WHEREAS, the City, through its Department of Public Works (“DPW”), wishes to purchase fee simple title to the real 
estate described in Exhibit “A” and depicted in Exhibit “B” attached hereto and incorporated herein (the “Real Estate”); and   
 
WHEREAS, acquisition of the Real Estate is needed for the construction and maintenance of DPW Project Number 
ST-29-020; the Girls School Rd from Perimeter Rd to 21st St Project; and 
 
WHEREAS, the City-County Council, having considered the acquisition of the Real Estate and being duly advised, 
finds that the City-County Council has an interest in acquiring the Real Estate; now, therefore: 
 
BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE 
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA: 
 
SECTION 1.  The City-County Council hereby establishes that it has an interest in acquiring the Real Estate described in 
Exhibit “A” attached to and incorporated into the official copy of this Resolution on file with the Clerk of the Council. 
 
SECTION 2.  For purposes of Revised Code Sec. 151-66, the Real Estate is owned by Button Habit, LLC.  
 
SECTION 3.  DPW is directed to appoint two (2) appraisers to appraise the fair market value of the Real Estate and to 
provide a copy of both appraisals to the Chair of the Public Works Committee of the City-County-Council. 
 
SECTION 4. This resolution shall be in effect from and after its passage by the Council and compliance with Indiana Code § 
36-3-4-14. 
 
PROPOSAL NO. 224, 2024.  The proposal, sponsored by Councilors Barth, Nielsen, Jones, Evans, 
Delaney, J. Brown, Cahill, Allen, Gibson, Carlino, Boots and McCormick, establishes the 
commitment of the City and County to eliminate traffic injuries and fatalities; establishes a Vision 
Zero Task Force; and commi ts to developing, adopting and implementing a Vision Zero Action 
Plan.  By a 10-2 v ote, the committee reported the proposal to the full Council with the 
recommendation that it do pass.   
 
Councilor Barth stated that this proposal prioritizes safety for all residents, because no loss of life 
on the streets is acceptable.  That is the goal of the Vision Zero Action Plan: a zero loss of life.  He 
thanked everyone who worked on this, especially his co- sponsor Councilor Nielsen for his

=== 2024-08-12 minutes, page 52 of 55 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 
 
 
 
 
56 
collaboration; as well as the director and staff of DPW.  He added that the advocates and users of 
the streets were instrumental in this priority, and this is only a first step, and the real work starts 
now and is a non-stop, ongoing process.   
 
Councilor Jones moved, seconded by Councilor A. Brown, for adoption.  Proposal No. 224, 2024 
was adopted on the following roll call vote; viz: 
 
22 YEAS: Allen, Annee, Bain, Barth, Boots, Brown-A, Brown-J, Cahill, Carlino, Delaney, Dilk, 
Evans, Gibson, Graves, Hart, Jones, Lewis, Mascari, McC ormick, Mowery, Nielsen, Osili, 
Perkins, Roberts, Robinson 
3 NAYS: Bain, Hart, Mowery 
 
Proposal No. 224, 2024 was retitled COUNCIL RESOLUTION  NO. 57, 2024, and reads as 
follows: 
 
CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL RESOLUTION NO. 57, 2024 
 
PROPOSAL FOR A COUNCIL RESOLUTION (1) establishing the commitment of the Consolidated City of 
Indianapolis and Marion County to eliminating traffic injuries and fatalities, and (2) establishing a Vision Zero Task 
Force, and (3) developing, adopting and implementing a Vision Zero Action Plan. 
 
WHEREAS, the council recognizes that the life, health, and safety of all people living and traveling within the 
Consolidated City of Indianapolis – Marion County (City) are our utmost priority, and no one should die or be seriously 
injured while traversing our City streets; and 
 
WHEREAS, the City’s transportation infrastructure serves an increasing number of vulnerable road users such as 
pedestrians, bicyclists, first responders, and construction workers; 
 
WHEREAS, children, older adults, people of color, people with disabilities, people who are unhoused, and people 
with low income face a significantly disproportionate risk of traffic injuries and fatalities; and 
 
WHEREAS, elected and appointed leadership of the City is committed to eliminating all fatal and serious injury 
crashes on city streets and roads by 2035; and 
 
WHEREAS, Vision Zero is the concept that traffic deaths and serious injuries on our roadways are unacceptable; 
and 
 
WHEREAS, Vision Zero is a holistic strategy aimed at eliminating all traffic fatalities and severe injuries suffered 
by all road users while increasing safe, healthy, equitable mobility for all; and 
 
WHEREAS, streets and transportation systems have traditionally been designed primarily to move cars efficiently, 
and Vision Zero supports a paradigm shift by recommending  street designs and transportation systems that  move all 
people safely, including people of all ages and abilities, pedestrians, bicyclists, public transit users, scooter riders, a nd 
motorcyclists, as well as drivers and passengers of motor vehicles; and 
 
WHEREAS, Vision Zero recognizes that people will sometimes make mistakes, so the road system and related 
policies should be designed to ensure that those inevitable mistakes do not result in severe injuries or fatalities; therefore, 
transportation planners and engineers and policymakers are expected to improve the roadway environment, policies, and 
other related systems to lessen the severity of crashes; and 
 
WHEREAS, successful Vision Zero programs are a result of both a complete government approach (i.e., 
interdepartmental, coordinated initiatives) and community support of Vision Zero objectives and action plans; and 
 
WHEREAS, many cities around the United States and the world have adopted Vision Zero as an approach to 
mitigating roadway deaths and severe injuries and have documented subsequent reductions; and 
 
WHEREAS, Vision Zero will expand the efforts of the City’s Fatal Crash Review team, which is charged with 
reviewing vehicle crashes occurring within the Consolidated City that result in serious injury or death and making a

=== 2024-08-12 minutes, page 53 of 55 ===
August 12, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
57  
written report to the mayor, the chief of police and the director of public works recommending roadway design changes, 
improved traffic controls, or other improvements or mitigation measures that the team determines are advisable and 
feasible to implement in order to improve the safety of all users of that street or highway; and  
 
WHEREAS, Vision Zero will complement the City’s adopted Complete Streets Policy, which directs the 
development of a safe, reliable, efficient, integrated and connected multimodal transportation system that will promote 
access, mobility and health for all users, and will ensure that the safety and convenience of all users of the transportation 
system are accommodated; and  
 
WHEREAS, the council commits to allocating resources within its powers and action toward mitigating these traffic 
deaths and serious injuries as is needed for a top priority of the Consolidated City of Indianapolis-Marion County; and 
 
WHEREAS, a ll municipal corporations , excluded cities, and other legal entities  within Marion County are 
encouraged to establish aligned Vision Zero goals, policies , and practices that , if appropriate,  are reported annually  
during budget hearings. now, therefore: 
 
BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE 
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA: 
 
SECTION 1.  Goals. The city sets the goal of eliminating all fatal and serious injury crashes on city streets by 2035; 
 
SECTION 2.  The Council authorizes and agrees to appropriate funding for the c ity to establish a full-time, dedicated, 
cross-departmental Vision Zero Administrator position by January 1, 2025. 
 
SECTION 3.  Task Force. A Vision Zero Task Force is hereby established under the authority of the council The Task 
Force shall be named the “Consolidated City of Indianapolis - Marion County Vision Zero Task Force (‘Task Force’). ” 
The Task Force shall hold public meetings and report its finding s and recommendations to the full council.   Public 
comment shall be allowed under any rules devised by the Task Force.   
 
SECTION 4.  Task Force Members .  The Task Force shall be comprised of 15 members, 8 appointed by the Council 
President and 7 appointed by the mayor.  All appointees shall be Marion County residents.   
 
The Council President shall appoint three  (3) members of the City -County Council, one of whom shall  be appointed 
from the minority caucus, and one of the three that will  serve as chair of the Task Force;  one (1) member representing 
the older adult community;  one (1) member representing a local advocacy organization;  one (1) member representing 
the county prosecutor’s office; one (1) member representing the recreational cycling community;  and one (1) member 
representing a public school corporation in Marion County;.  
 
The Mayor shall appoint one (1) member representing the Department of Public Works (DPW);  one (1) member 
representing the Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department (IMPD); one (1) member representing the Department of 
Metropolitan Development (DMD);  one (1) member representing the Department of Business and Neighborhood 
Services; one (1) member representing the Indianapolis Fire Department (IFD); one (1) member representing the Office 
of Financial Management; and one (1) member representing the Indianapolis Public Transit Authority.  
 
SECTION 5. Meetings. The Task Force shall hold its initial public meeting by October 1, 2024.  The Vision Zero 
Administrator shall provide staffing to the Task Force with support from other departments as needed. After its initial 
meeting, the Task Force shall meet upon the call of its chair or a majority of its members and shall hold at least two ( 2) 
public meetings per calendar year.  Eight (8) members of the Task Force shall constitute a quorum.  Any findings or 
reports of the Task Force shall only be approved by the vote of eight (8) members.  Any vacancy on the Task Force shall 
be filled in the same manner in which the original appointment was made. All meetings are subject to Indiana’s Open 
Door Law, I .C. § 5-14 -1.5-1 et seq., Access to Public Records Act, I.C. § 5 -14-3-1 et seq., and Indiana’s Record 
Retention Law, I.C. § 5-15 et seq 
  
SECTION 6.  Action Plan.  The Vision Zero Task Force shall develop and adopt a Vision Zero Action Plan (“Action 
Plan”) by July 1, 2025, for the purpose of achieving the 2035 goal  of eliminating all fatal and serious injury crashes on 
Indianapolis-Marion County roa dways under the City’s jurisdiction. The Action Plan shall: focus on a Safe System 
approach; reflect current best practices and guidelines in transportation safety; be data driven and equitable; include 
community input; and be posted on a dedicated location on the city’s website.  Each individual strategy identified in the

=== 2024-08-12 minutes, page 54 of 55 ===
Journal of the City-County Council 
 
 
 
 
 
58 
Action Plan shall, at a minimum, include:  deadlines for implementation; person(s), department(s), and organization(s) 
responsible for implementation;  adequate funding source or actions needed to obtain funding; and  performance goals 
and metrics.  
 
SECTION 7.  Reporting. Progress on implementation of the Vision Zero Action Plan and related performance measures 
shall be reported to the council on a quarterly basis. The Vision Zero Action Plan shall be updated by May annually. The 
Vision Zero Action Plan shall be formally adopted and implementation policies and practices established by all relevant 
city departments, including but not limited to DPW, the IMPD, DMD, IFD, concurrent with the adoption of the Vision 
Zero Action Plan.  The city shall establish a Vision Zero page on its website,  
www.indy.gov. The website shall track 
progress of the Vision Zero Action Plan and the Plan’s implementation through 2035. T he progress dashboard on the 
website will be updated biannually, and an annual report summarizing the work completed on the strategies will be 
posted. 
 
SECTION 8.  This resolution shall be in full force and effect upon adoption and compliance with IC 36-3-4-14.     
 
PROPOSAL NO. 225, 2024.  Councilor Boots reported that the Rules and Public Policy Committee 
heard Proposal No. 225, 2024 on July 23, 2024.  The proposal, sponsored by Councilors Hart and 
Boots, extends the time for the previously established Commission on Artificial Intelligence to 
complete its work and draft its final recommendations .  Councilor Boots thanked Councilor Hart 
and General Counsel Pierce for their collaboration on this commission, and said that he is excited 
about the progress they have made.  They are in the phase of an interim report to be released in the 
next couple of weeks, and there is so much more information to get their heads around.  By a 10-0 
vote, the committee reported the proposal to the full Council with the recommendation that it do 
pass.  Councilor Boots moved, seconded by Councilor Hart, for adoption.  Proposal No. 225, 2024 
was adopted on the following roll call vote; viz: 
 
25 YEAS: Allen, Annee, Bain, Barth, Boots, Brown-A, Brown-J, Cahill, Carlino, Delaney, Dilk, 
Evans, Gibson, Graves, Hart, Jones, Lewis, Mascari, McCormick, Mowery, Nielsen, Osili, 
Perkins, Roberts, Robinson 
0 NAYS:  
 
Proposal No. 225, 2024 was retitled COUNCIL RESOLUTION NO. 58, 2024 , and reads as 
follows: 
 
CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL RESOLUTION NO. 58, 2024 
 
PROPOSAL FOR A COUNCIL RESOLUTION extending the time for the previously establish ed Commission on 
Artificial Intelligence to complete its work and draft its final recommendations. 
  
WHEREAS, on December 4, 2023, the city-county council, via Proposal Number 362, 2023, (Council Resolution 
87, 2023), established the Commission on Artificial Intelligence (Commission); and 
 
WHEREAS, the purpose of the Commission. as stated in that Council Resolution, is to review and analyze 
information gathered from AI experts, industry leaders, community members, and other stakeholders with the end goal 
being to recommend city policy changes; and 
 
WHREAS, even though the fully constituted Commission began regular meetings  in March of 2024, additional 
time is needed to gather adequate information and draft the report; now, therefore: 
  
BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY-COUNTY COUNCIL OF THE 
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS AND OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA: 
  
SECTION 1.  The timeline established in the enabling Council Resolution is hereby extended through March of 2025. 
 
SECTION 2.  The Commission shall present an interim report to the full Council prior to the Council’s September 9
th 
meeting.  This interim report shall detail what the Commission has learned thus far and what additional steps are needed

=== 2024-08-12 minutes, page 55 of 55 ===
August 12, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
59  
to fulfill its purpose.  The final report to the Council shall be submitted within two months of the Commission’s final 
meeting and shall be posted on the City’s website.  
  
SECTION 3.  This resolution shall be in full force and effect upon adoption and compliance with IC 36-3-4-14. 
 
ANNOUNCEMENTS AND ADJOURNMENT 
 
The President said that the docketed agenda for this meeting of the Council having been completed, 
the Chair would entertain motions for adjournment. 
 
Councilor Mowery stated that he had been asked to offer the following motions for adjournment: 
 
 by All Democrat Councilors in memory of S. Carmen Porter. 
 
 by All Councilors in memory of James Morris. 
 
 by Councilor Lewis in memory of Jim Morris and John D. Zangrilli. 
 
 by Councilor Barth in memory of Roy O. Taylor. 
 
 by Councilor Mascari in memory of Terry Ann “Savage” Miller. 
 
 by Councilor Osili in memory of Paul Clyton, Sr. and Daniel E. Doss, Jr.  
 
Councilor Mowery moved the adjournment of this meeting of the Indianapolis City- County 
Council in recognition of and respect for the life and contributions of  .  He respectfully asked the 
support of fellow Councilors.  He further requested that the motion be made a part of the permanent 
records of this body and that a letter bearing the Council seal and the signature of the President be 
sent to the families advising of this action. 
 
There being no further business, and upon motion duly made and seconded, the meeting adjourned 
at 9:37 p.m. 
 
We hereby certify that the above and foregoing is a full, true and complete record of the proceedings 
of the regular concurrent meetings of the City -Council of Indianapolis -Marion County, Indiana, 
and Indianapolis Police, Fire and Solid Waste Collection Special Service District Councils on the 
12th day of August, 2024. 
 
In Witness Whereof, we have hereunto subscribed our signatures, caused the Seal of the City of 
Indianapolis to be affixed. 
 
 
 
 President 
ATTEST: 
 
(SEAL) Clerk of the Council
